Orlando Sequera: We are going to be covering great content today. Again.
Orlando Sequera: We are ready to do our best. I'm here with carmine as a Moderator, and we are ready to
Orlando Sequera: provide you with the best experience possible. So you can continue your journey in your Pmp. Exam. Preparation
Orlando Sequera: as we have learned so far in the last 2 days we're going to have breaks. We're going to have breaks
Orlando Sequera: a approximately every hour, approximately every hour.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to be able to cover the entire content. We have done this multiple times. We have been able to help thousands of candidates. We will have enough time to cover the entire content.
Orlando Sequera: and we will also have as much time as possible to answer as many questions as possible, so i'll do my best, and in order to do that, we're going to follow the same approach that we followed yesterday with
Orlando Sequera: questions in the Q. And a. We will have some designated top in points after we cover some topics, so we can then address some of the questions right as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: Then at the 3.5 h, Mark, If for those of you in Eastern time it's going to be at 1 30.
Orlando Sequera: We are going to have a 1 h break. But again, important important. Do not log off during the 1 h break. Do not look off during any break. Please stay locked in during all breaks
Orlando Sequera: it during the 1 h break. We're going to be playing videos
Orlando Sequera: that are that contain important information that are going to help you with
Orlando Sequera: your experience.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: again, how can you access your resources? If you are a perceived your user, you can go to per sepio. But please make sure that you are in the right place. Make sure that you select
Orlando Sequera: Pmp.
Orlando Sequera: atp 5 day boot camp, and then in the far right, You're gonna have the a tab that says resources. You can click on that, and you can access
Orlando Sequera: that as well. And in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: We have great information. Karl proactively has posted some great information on how to access your boot can resources. That's at the very top of your Q. A. If you sort by most up votes it's gonna be at the very top.
Orlando Sequera: A lot of the questions that many of you have been having so far are going to be
Orlando Sequera: at the top. How did you access resources. How do I request a recording? Those questions are answer in detail in the Q. A. Okay. So please make sure that you review that
Orlando Sequera: have to access your boot camp resources for both
Orlando Sequera: per CPU and also
Orlando Sequera: non- percep your users. If you're a nonprofit, user you gotta go to Github
Orlando Sequera: to click on that link, and that will take you to the folder that contains all the resources that
Orlando Sequera: we have in precip all the resources that you need to get ready for your Pmp. Exam. So you can review the questions they are, if you sort in the Q. A. By most up votes they're going to be at the very top, and
Orlando Sequera: that will help you. How can you access recordings?
Orlando Sequera: How I have questions about attendance?
Orlando Sequera: They are.
Orlando Sequera: They are
Orlando Sequera: answer in detail, so you can check those review those, and that's going to help. One thing that I wanted to mention.
Orlando Sequera: If you locked in today with the same information that you use the day before, and that's actually the next slide
Orlando Sequera: Logging in with the correct name is your responsibility.
Orlando Sequera: But the good news is that
Orlando Sequera: if you locked in
Orlando Sequera: today with the same information that you use in the previous 2 days. You do not have to do a name check. Okay, please avoid
Orlando Sequera: a doing a name check
Orlando Sequera: if you already did it. They last in the last 2 days. This is the same information that's not going to change. Okay, so please help us to it. We don't
Orlando Sequera: cloter the Q. A. With unnecessary messages. You do not have to do that every single day. If you're logging in with the same information. You are fine. Okay, that's not going to change. All right.
Orlando Sequera: So. But please make sure that you log in with the right information
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: a lot of good information, and also
Orlando Sequera: And again, we have that message in the chat. If you have done a name check before in the Q. A. And you're using the same method. Please do not name check. Okay, please do not name check.
Orlando Sequera: They may not be able to see their name when posting in the Q. A. Check your name in percipio instead for those per super users that are not able to see their name when they're posting questions in the Q. A. Section.
Orlando Sequera: Please check your name in per sepio and in the chat. If you have, if you need assistance, changing your naming per CPU.
Orlando Sequera: Karl has posted the link to reach out to support
Orlando Sequera: to contact customer support. They will be able to help you with that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: if you're having issues with percipio or skills or skill port being disconnected from the session, please contact
Orlando Sequera: customer support directly that is at support.com forward slash, boot camp
Orlando Sequera: for any assistance.
Orlando Sequera: You do not need to notify us during the session that you have, rejoined the session. If you have missed any time. You do not need to do that. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So let's save.
Orlando Sequera: And those messages we do not need to to let to let us know
Orlando Sequera: if you start having recurrent issues
Orlando Sequera: with precipio. For example.
Orlando Sequera: please log in in login using zoom. That might be a better option
Orlando Sequera: logging, using zoom If you start having audio issues or video issues in a recurrent fashion.
Orlando Sequera: and that is not going to change for the rest of the class. It's the same zoom login information. If you get it yesterday, it's going to be the same. If you get it in the first day. It is the same information that doesn't change, so please make sure that you save it, and you have it available. If you will like to use zoom instead of perip, you
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And also when it comes to the tracker. The instructions are in the document.
Orlando Sequera: Please read the instructions that you have in the attendance tracker that will help. That's gonna guide you. Those are the steps that's very prescriptive. Those are the steps that you have to follow, the very simple steps that you have to follow, to track your time. That is important.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, every day. But you track your time with the attendance tracker.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: How can you participate in the Webinar?
Orlando Sequera: We are saving the bandwidth
Orlando Sequera: by disabling cameras and microphones. You can
Orlando Sequera: change the chat to blue Box to everyone, and
Orlando Sequera: you can use the modicons as well. But we are going to keep the chat,
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be. If you get out of control, we're going to pass it
Orlando Sequera: and use it to respond to instructors
Orlando Sequera: questions. If I ask you for feedback, it's going to be on past, and you can provide feedback.
Orlando Sequera: You can sure
Orlando Sequera: tools and techniques.
Orlando Sequera: But remember important questions do not go in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Questions to know go in the chat. So it's going to be slow.
Orlando Sequera: For the most part it's gonna be passed to minimize disruptions to the class.
Orlando Sequera: The Q. A. Is going to be 4
Orlando Sequera: technical questions. Those are the ones that the moderators are going to be answering. And, by the way, right now the chat is passed.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: We have technical questions, Your moderators, those are going to be the top priority. They're going to try to assist you. They're going to assist you. I'm not going to try. They're going to assist you with that.
Orlando Sequera: If you have any questions about course material. Please start with per sepio or non procedure users, but we have. But please make sure that you check the Q. A. At the very top. If you sort by most
Orlando Sequera: up votes your Q. A. You're gonna find answers to those questions for both per CPU and number CPU users. So please check that first. The information is already there.
Orlando Sequera: and of course content Related questions go in the chat. I'm. Sorry. Go in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: Content related questions Go in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: we will have
Orlando Sequera: designated
Orlando Sequera: stopping points during the class to address
Orlando Sequera: those questions. And we're going to start with the ones that have
Orlando Sequera: the most votes. So please make sure that you click on the thumbs up
Orlando Sequera: to vote for the for a question. If you want to get the answer. Those are going to be the ones that are going to be answered first. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. And again, please be patient. Yesterday was a better day, and we're gonna continue the same
Orlando Sequera: approach today. It's going to be even a better day. We have great content. So please be patient. We're going to do our best
Orlando Sequera: to answer your questions, our best to make sure that you get the information that you need to be successful in your Pmp. Exempt
Orlando Sequera: Again, question is in the Q. A. Are going to be visible to all participants.
Orlando Sequera: if you like a particular question
Orlando Sequera: click on the thumbs up to up vote. So those are the ones that are gonna be at the top of the list. Those are the ones that I that i'm gonna be addressing first
Orlando Sequera: look for existing questions before typing a new one. To avoid redundancy to avoid duplicates.
Orlando Sequera: a top questions are going to be answered. Live
it!
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to do my best with that.
Orlando Sequera: But the mentors are gonna be gonna be given priority to managing technical issues. Okay, and please remember, not. Every question is going to be answered. But we'll I'm gonna do my best to answer a as many questions as possible that are related to the content that we're covering. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what is a great question. Great questions are gonna be related to the course content that we're covering. That's the main goal with this class to get you ready for the Pmp. Exam. And also topics that
Orlando Sequera: everyone will benefit from learning and are not spread across multiple posts.
Orlando Sequera: So so by most up votes
Orlando Sequera: that's going to help you, and that's going to show you at the top the questions that are a
Orlando Sequera: that half the most votes
Orlando Sequera: is live attendance require for this class. The answer again is, Yes, this is a hard requirement that comes from the PE Project Management Institute. Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: We do have an exception.
Orlando Sequera: You're allowed to means one session. If you make up the session by watching the replay, if you miss more than 50 min at any time
Orlando Sequera: beyond the one session allowed, you need to make it up by attending a life session in a different 5 day cohort.
Orlando Sequera: If you want to know what are the options for other cohorts. Check
Orlando Sequera: calendar, dot skill Subcom, and that will provide you with information about the upcoming sessions that we have for the Pmp Boot camp.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: In the event of an absence. You can request a replay
Orlando Sequera: bye
Orlando Sequera: asking in the Q. And a. For a pastor, current session or emailing the mentoring team after the session ends
Orlando Sequera: at mentoring at skillsoft.com.
Orlando Sequera: Please provide the following information: because we have multiple cohorts.
Orlando Sequera: They
Orlando Sequera: what can cohort that you're attending the session number and the date and time. And here's an example, for
Orlando Sequera: for in your specific situation it will be the Pmp. At people Can 5 Day, North America, Cohort January, 2,023;
Orlando Sequera: then the number of the Sessions session, 1 2 or 3 or 4 or 5,
Orlando Sequera: and then the date and time
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to hey? That's a that's a common question as well.
Orlando Sequera: I attended all 5 sessions. I would like to get
Orlando Sequera: access to the replace. Do I have any limitations? No, the answer is, No, there's no limit on the question that replace for study purposes. Okay, these are going to be available to you
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: We are gonna go over a recap of what we cover yesterday
Orlando Sequera: that we started
Orlando Sequera: yesterday talking
Orlando Sequera: about planning. We started talking about stakeholders, and this is something
Orlando Sequera: that happens at the very beginning of any project. Hey? We started talking about
Orlando Sequera: identifying the stakeholders that it is very important
Orlando Sequera: that you identified your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: You need to know who they are.
Orlando Sequera: That is something that happens at the very beginning of every single project as I was mentioning before, and i'll mention it later. It was a topic that we cover at the end with
Orlando Sequera: with planning.
Orlando Sequera: We do. The 2 things that happen at the start of any project
Orlando Sequera: are
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder notification that should happen. Actually, you should identify your stakeholders voting parallel. You should also be working and making sure that the project charter. That important
Orlando Sequera: artifact that is the birth certificate of your project is also develop. You're going to be working with the sponsor. The sponsor is in charge of making sure that the the document gets created. But you can provide assistance
Orlando Sequera: to the sponsor. But those 2 processes they happen in parallel. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So it's not all way, not everything is going to be sequential. That's the point that i'm trying to make. But that happens first. If you would like to know what will. What happens first at the very beginning of the project is those 2 things.
Orlando Sequera: stakeholder identification
Orlando Sequera: and developing a plan to keep your stakeholders engage. That is crucial to me to know, because at the end of the day we are building our product service a result, whatever it is that we're trying to do with our project.
Orlando Sequera: whether it is building a house or developing a software for
Orlando Sequera: the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: Whatever a project is, these 4 customers, right? So we need to start knowing who the stakeholders are. Not All of them are going to be the customers, for we need to know all the stakeholders. So that's
Orlando Sequera: that happens at the very beginning of any project, and also that important artifact, the first.
Orlando Sequera: the the first important artifact in our project, which is the birth certificate also known as the project charter. That has to be that that is the green light that you need as a project manager to start working on planning. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: without that, the project doesn't officially start or exist without the product. Charter the project doesn't officially exist, and, as I mentioned before, multiple times, and I want to mention it one more time.
Orlando Sequera: Think of the the project, Charter.
Orlando Sequera: at that particular point in time, at the very beginning of your project, with the information that you know, based on what will, based on
Orlando Sequera: organizational process assets.
Orlando Sequera: enterprise, environmental factors.
Orlando Sequera: and also based on
Orlando Sequera: the business case, the justification, all those initial
Orlando Sequera: a documents that are creating
Orlando Sequera: in the genesis of a project. Okay, at the very beginning, before the project actually exist, there's that information put. Then it's all put together in that
Orlando Sequera: in that artifact that we call the project charter. It's going to have information about multiple areas of our project. It has information about.
Orlando Sequera: They scheduled milestones, at least we because we haven't built the scheduled yet. Right? We're going to do that later in planning them Today we're going to be talking about that we're going to start.
Orlando Sequera: Doing a deeper dive in those multiple areas. We don't have a schedule at the at that point. So it's just. But we have some idea, some high level idea about the milestones. And, by the way, a mass times a significant event in any in any project.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: it's going to have high level information about the scope, high level information about their budget, but not the actual budget. We still have to go through processes
Orlando Sequera: to determine
Orlando Sequera: the actual budget.
Orlando Sequera: Yeah, we haven't done that. But we have an idea. We have an idea based on historical information. We're gonna have some we need to start somewhere, and that somewhere is going to be the project Charter. So those are the main 2 things that happen at the very beginning.
Orlando Sequera: Going back to the stakeholders. We need to have a plan on how we need to know who those stakeholders are.
Orlando Sequera: and the outcome of that process of stakeholder. Identification is going to be another artifact that we call the stakeholder register. It's nothing but a spreadsheet.
Orlando Sequera: a list of stakeholders with contact information
Orlando Sequera: and as much information as we can collect about those stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: to understand who they are, their contact information, what are, if they have any? What is their
Orlando Sequera: a? What is there? The the the requirements? When it comes to the project, we need to know that a. In advance so we can tailor. Our approach to keep them engaged is crucial for any project it's crucial to keep your stakeholders engaged regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: It is crucial to keep your stakeholders engaged.
Orlando Sequera: So that is crucial. Okay? Then we talked about.
Orlando Sequera: We have that in place. We move forward, and we also said that we need to get everyone on the same page. That's what we mean by Bill share understanding. We need to get our
Orlando Sequera: team members, and we need to get our stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: on the same page
Orlando Sequera: in regards to their
Orlando Sequera: understanding of the project that is crucial that has to be done at the very beginning. Otherwise you're gonna have your project teams going in a different direction
Orlando Sequera: compared to what the stakeholders are expecting. So you have to align those suspect those expectations.
Orlando Sequera: That's where the vision comes into play. The project vision is clear is clear. We need to know where we're going. That is crucial that we have, and regardless of the approach, regardless of the approach
Orlando Sequera: it what? And by that I mean whether you're going with a predictive approach, whether you're going with a
Orlando Sequera: with an agile approach that is crucial.
Orlando Sequera: that we are on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about forming the team.
Orlando Sequera: That is very important. And we briefly what a video the talkman ladder video about the 5 stages of the information. We will do a deeper dive on that. But anything regardless of the approach is going to go through those
Orlando Sequera: a stages, and that's something that you need to know, and you need to remember for your Pmp. Exam. You might get questions on the talkman ladder, but we're gonna cover that. we we're also gonna be talking about that later. Okay. But the Tuckman ladder is an important topic.
Orlando Sequera: Then, forming the team. We have a different considerations.
Orlando Sequera: For if we're following a predictive approach, if we're following the imagine approach. If we're following an app.
Orlando Sequera: a hybrid approach that is important to
Orlando Sequera: it to keep in mind
Orlando Sequera: and different considerations. For a, for example, for a predictive. If we're following a predictive approach, we need to know the scope well. We need to work on understanding the requirements and understanding the scope before we can start working on the project. But
Orlando Sequera: when we forming the team, for if we're following a module approach.
Orlando Sequera: We need to know the vision. We need to know where we're going.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to be
Orlando Sequera: building a new
Orlando Sequera: type of engine for
Orlando Sequera: space rockets to go to Mars and beyond using a new technology. Okay, we know where we're going. We have
Orlando Sequera: a we're able to to determine the vision where we're going. How do we get there? That's a different story. So the scope is going to be changing, and we are using an adaptive approach
Orlando Sequera: to develop.
Orlando Sequera: at least for the development phase of that project. We're going to be using an adaptive approach, and that's going to be your best bet, because we're going to have to change course, change, change course multiple times throughout the project. But we form the team, if regardless of the approach with some different considerations.
Orlando Sequera: and then that takes us to the project approach?
Orlando Sequera: Should we go with a predictive approach? Should we go with an agile approach or adaptive approach? Or
Orlando Sequera: should we go with a hybrid approach with a combination of the 2? Mainly, this is gonna come from
Orlando Sequera: mainly. This is gonna come from your
Orlando Sequera: from the subject matter experts, the people that are doing the work, your project team members.
Orlando Sequera: they shouldn't, be imposed.
Orlando Sequera: Everything is done through collaboration. Everything should be done through collaboration not not imposed. Let them drive. Let them drive.
Orlando Sequera: Remember the important concept of servant leadership. Okay. So this should be a team decision ideally.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: which
Orlando Sequera: which approach is the best fit for our particular situation. And then we started also briefly, at the very end of our session yesterday to talk about
Orlando Sequera: planning
Orlando Sequera: that once we get everyone started we completed that kickoff meeting. We got everyone on board we got. We were able to get
Orlando Sequera: our stakeholders and our team members on the same on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: also have a
Orlando Sequera: approach are in place. We had our kickoff meeting now. It's time to move on to start working on planning. And that is lesson number 3. And that involves a deeper dive in multiple areas of your project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we're going to start covering those multiple areas. Now, we we're going to
Orlando Sequera: understand properly what I said yesterday about the project charter, because now we're gonna have to work on
Orlando Sequera: defining the scope. How do we do that for predicted projects and adaptive projects?
Orlando Sequera: Then we're going to move on to another important area schedule. We have to work on
Orlando Sequera: creating the schedule for a project. Now we do. We're gonna do a deeper dive. We're gonna we're gonna put some effort to understand now now that we know this code of our project. We're gonna work on
Orlando Sequera: defining the schedule for a project. So that takes time, and we have to do that with the team.
Orlando Sequera: Now we have enough information to work with our team members to build our schedule, and it's gonna it has to be as realistic as possible. We also have to cover a another important area which is resources.
Orlando Sequera: It takes planning and all. We also have to work at least tied up to a the scope and the schedule. And another important that we're going to be covering today is budget right? So we have our scope defined. If it's, if it's a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: We have our schedule. We have a resources. We also have to work on our budget. Now, we're gonna we're gonna be doing deeper dives. And this is the the reason why you don't have to go back and change your project, Charter. That's high level information that you had at that particular time. The main purpose of that project, Charter, is to give you the green light, for now you have
Orlando Sequera: the green light to start working on these planning processes and define
Orlando Sequera: do a deeper dive with your team members, with your stakeholders. To start. Define this different areas of your project. You need you need it. It's going to take some time, and you need you need information. It's nice. High level is not going to cut it, so that's why you'd have to go back and change
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: project. Charter. So this is what we have in store. We're gonna cover today. Scope, schedule resources
Orlando Sequera: and budget. There's a lot of content here. So even though it's only 4 areas, there's a lot of content that is gonna keep us entertained for the remainder of this session. All right?
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna get started.
Orlando Sequera: But before we get into the content I would like to review any of the content related questions briefly, and then we're gonna start.
Orlando Sequera: and we're going to continue.
Orlando Sequera: If I see any question that is,
Orlando Sequera: initially.
Orlando Sequera: okay, there is a question.
Orlando Sequera: You mentioned that there being 2 needed things
Orlando Sequera: before the project starts. Nope. No, no, no, no.
Orlando Sequera: they have to this is what happens at the start of any project. The project charter is to official birth certificate. But at the same time that we're developing the project Charter, we're also identifying stakeholders. Those are the 2 processes that occur at the start of the project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when you're working on identifying your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: you have to come up with a plan. Yes, you have to come up with a plan to my apologies. I didn't agree
Orlando Sequera: the question correctly.
Orlando Sequera: but you have to. But the planning happens after the steak after the pro charter is created. You start working on planning efforts, but
Orlando Sequera: not just for stakeholder for all these different areas that we have
Orlando Sequera: that we have here. Okay, all the different areas of your project, scope, scheduled resources, project, risk.
Orlando Sequera: quality and integration.
Orlando Sequera: So all that happens
Orlando Sequera: once the Project charter has been created and signed off.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: me. So i'm trying to find any other content. Related questions.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, Adams.
Orlando Sequera: I don't see any other
Orlando Sequera: content related questions at this point. But we will go back to them. All right. So let's get started. We're gonna start with planning lesson 3 planning. This is
Orlando Sequera: we are working with the team, and this is where you
Orlando Sequera: are going to
Orlando Sequera: so the project started, and now we have to work on our planning efforts, and we're going to start with scope.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: one of the most important, I would say this is the foundation of
Orlando Sequera: any project.
Orlando Sequera: Scope is king.
Orlando Sequera: Scope is
Orlando Sequera: probably the most important
Orlando Sequera: a area of any project.
Orlando Sequera: Everything is everything else that we built
Orlando Sequera: in our project. It's going to be around the scope.
Orlando Sequera: If we don't get this right.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be in trouble.
Orlando Sequera: This is the foundation of
Orlando Sequera: any project, any project. So we start
Orlando Sequera: a in product management with the scope what we're gonna be doing.
Orlando Sequera: and when it comes to scope
Orlando Sequera: what I
Orlando Sequera: The scope
Orlando Sequera: project scope is is going to be the sum of all the product, services and results that are going to be provided as a project. But let's get a clear understanding, because again, we have
Orlando Sequera: projects, cope.
Orlando Sequera: and we have
Orlando Sequera: product scope. Let's understand it is important.
Orlando Sequera: It it is important that we understand the differences between project, scope and product scope. I'm. Going to start with product scope.
Orlando Sequera: or we're going to start with project scope. My apologies
Orlando Sequera: project scope
Orlando Sequera: if they work that we have to complete
Orlando Sequera: in our project
Orlando Sequera: to produce
Orlando Sequera: a product service of result
Orlando Sequera: in the example that we're using in the content. The project scope of the shop lifestyle center is to complete a construction project and engage a sales and marketing firm to fill it with tenants over time to complete a construction project.
Orlando Sequera: That is.
Orlando Sequera: they work that we have to do to produce that
Orlando Sequera: not to produce, to build the lifestyle center.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that is project scope, this specific case.
Orlando Sequera: then the product scope
Orlando Sequera: is about functionality.
Orlando Sequera: Protocol is about features and functionality
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: a product service over. So
Orlando Sequera: it's gonna have a sab it it. Think of your iphone, for example. Think of your Android phone the memory. They will. They call her they
Orlando Sequera: the actual, the processor speed, right?
Orlando Sequera: So those are
Orlando Sequera: functional characteristics. That's what we mean by
Orlando Sequera: product scope.
Orlando Sequera: Project scope is the work that we have to complete to produce that product scope. Some are all of it right? No, necessarily all of it. It might be some areas of the product. Remember, when we, when we talked about the product life cycle yesterday and the project life cycle yesterday. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: in the example of the shop industries lifestyle center, it's going to be the complete re rewrite tailization of the oasis Down with customer spaces for commercial and community tenants.
Orlando Sequera: It's about functionality, functionality for a
Orlando Sequera: that, for o a system for this, Imaginary location? Okay, that's product scope.
Orlando Sequera: But the scope can be
Orlando Sequera: for an idea. This has to be identified at the beginning, and
Orlando Sequera: the scope can be fixed.
Orlando Sequera: and usually that's what happens in construction projects. This scope is fixed, or and there are some other projects, too, not only construction, but is the easiest way to visualize it right When we're building we're building a one story house, for example, the scope is going to be fixed. We're going to define it. We to understand one story house. But we need to understand. Okay, what type of roof
Orlando Sequera: are you gonna be? You and you're using metal roof are you using shingles? What are you? What are you using for the roof? What type of
Orlando Sequera: exterior W. What type of materials are you using for the frame of the house? Are you using concrete? Are you using what we are using for the exterior of the house? What about the floors. Are they going to be tile? Are they going to be carpet?
Orlando Sequera: What about the the landscaping of the house? So we need to define all of that we need to define all of that. That's how
Orlando Sequera: in If we're following a predictive approach, we need to define all those requirements before we start doing the work. The scope is fixed. You might be wondering. Can that change?
Orlando Sequera: And the answer is yes. But in that specific case we need to go. We need to keep those changes under control.
Orlando Sequera: and for that we use a change control process. Okay, yes, change change can happen, but it has to be controlled. If the scope is fixed, we have to go through a change control process. Okay. Otherwise imagine the. Except with the example of the house, you have your
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume that your customers they want to build. They want to add a pool to the house. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that's fine. We we add in a pool. Is it? Okay? But
Orlando Sequera: this is gonna have an impact to the the scope. It was already fixed. And a proof you want to add a pool. That's a change.
Orlando Sequera: The pool is going to cost $40,000, Us. Dollars, and it's gonna add
Orlando Sequera: 3 months to the schedule. So
Orlando Sequera: an entity that we call change Control Board is going to review them and say, okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is gonna add
Orlando Sequera: to the schedule
Orlando Sequera: 3 months, and it's gonna cost $40,000 more
Orlando Sequera: that gets presented to the customers. Are you okay with this? Yes, let's do it. We are okay with that we're okay with extending the schedule and increasing the budget. Okay? And then the pool gets it's gonna get built.
Orlando Sequera: But would you might be wondering, Why can you use an agent approach
Orlando Sequera: in building building the pool, because when you start.
Orlando Sequera: dig in the hole in the backyard, for example, for the pool
Orlando Sequera: 2 weeks later, once the
Orlando Sequera: the the the whole is the the police dog.
Orlando Sequera: They it's not a good approach to be. Well, you know what I don't like that location. I like that other location. Then you start digging another hole in the backyard. You start a 2 weeks later. No, you know you know what we change our mind. We won the pool. Not in this location. We went in that location. So, for in those situations
Orlando Sequera: an adaptive approach it
Orlando Sequera: changing, that is really having the scope a flexible like that. It's not really going to be conducive to a better result. That's going to be a major impact. It's gonna
Orlando Sequera: It's going to be traumatic for that project. So that's why in those situations it's better to go with a fit. You need to define your scope really well, and
Orlando Sequera: can it change? Yes, but it has to be control. It has to be. That's why we use a change control process, and we go through those approvals. But in some situations
Orlando Sequera: the scope.
Orlando Sequera: It's better if we have. If we follow a flexible approach
Orlando Sequera: A. We need.
Orlando Sequera: for example, this happens in, and we're not using here the actual
Orlando Sequera: a example of software development for agile right in marketing. This happens a lot, and also in sales based on customer preferences. Why is that? Because, as you know customer preferences are changing
Orlando Sequera: daily or actually hourly. You could say that customer versions are changing, so that indicates a lot of changes if you have. So if in that situation you know
Orlando Sequera: that your scope you're working in a sales project or a marketing project based on customer preferences that are going to be changing, having a rigid approach with a fixed cope. Is that going to be the best bet for your project? Probably not so. That's where.
Orlando Sequera: following an approach with a flexive scope. A. That's going to be your best, pip. It's about. You can change course. You can change correction, and the team can focus on what they need to do, which is add value to their customers. But they need to have the right approach and
Orlando Sequera: the right, For the right situation. So we need to evaluate that. That's why I was mentioning before, when you are deciding. What type of approach are you following for your project?
Orlando Sequera: The first aspect that you have to look at is this code for the Pmp. Exam for the Pmp. Exam.
Orlando Sequera: Pay attention to the type of scope that they're giving you in the scenario question. They might give you some hints.
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: you are the project manager, working on Project X, Y. Z.
Orlando Sequera: About replacing the piping system for a small community in rural area. The team is very familiar with this type of project. They have worked on this and similar projects in the past, and they're very familiar with the scope. So that's what you need. The information that you need to take. Okay, they're giving you hints that
Orlando Sequera: going with a fixed
Orlando Sequera: approach going with a predictive approach, may be your best
Orlando Sequera: rather than going with an agile approach. So the first aspect that you have to look at is the type of scope of your project. Okay, is King. That is.
Orlando Sequera: that's kind of determined. What type of approach should I follow in my project? Okay. But again, in some cases
Orlando Sequera: you can.
Orlando Sequera: having following a hybrid approach, is going to be your best bet, because some areas of the scope are going to be well defined, well understood. But
Orlando Sequera: it is possible that some other areas of your project are not are complex and not well understood, or you know, going in that they're going to have a lot of changes. That's when a hybrid approach comes into play. But scope
Orlando Sequera: the foundation of any project, any project. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: nowadays nowadays, and I will have to say.
Orlando Sequera: having a fixed cope is becoming more and more and more uncommon, because planning planning rarely happens all at once
Orlando Sequera: A. And at the beginning of the project so many organizations are switching or pivoting to what we call rolling wave planning.
Orlando Sequera: which
Orlando Sequera: enables you to begin to work, do some work.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: over time. When more information becomes available, you start understanding more about the scope. So many organizations are doing that.
Orlando Sequera: and of what, of course, in construction.
Orlando Sequera: not so much. They have narrowed that down to a science in some industries they still follow a fixed scope approach construction. Being one of them.
Orlando Sequera: they narrow that down to a science, otherwise they will lose money. Those construction companies. So they understand that scope really really really well. But a fixed scope approach is increasingly uncommon nowadays due to the complexity.
Orlando Sequera: and this is becoming more and more and more prevalent in many industries, this rolling wave planning, and then.
Orlando Sequera: by following this approach.
Orlando Sequera: you can
Orlando Sequera: do some work, understand more of the scope, and then decompose as more information
Orlando Sequera: becomes available about this couple of the work. You understand more about your project. Then you can start a decomposing those service of the scope, and that is that that's how you're able to be more successful. It really it really helps. This is used in both approaches, regardless of
Orlando Sequera: whether you're going with a predictive approach. You can also use this in an adaptive approach or agile, so it's becoming more and more a
Orlando Sequera: prevalent, more and more a common to use what is called Rolling Wave Planning.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna watch a video that is gonna help us to understand. These are 2 concepts that are
Orlando Sequera: traveling in agile
Orlando Sequera: one that is called minimum viable product, Mvp.
Orlando Sequera: And another one that is called Mbi, which is minimum business increment.
Orlando Sequera: This is for agile, and we're gonna start understanding the differences between the 2. We're going to watch this video.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let me make sure that i'm sharing my with some. Okay, let's watch this video.
One of the cornerstones of Agile is to release incrementally. Build a small but complete piece, release it, learn from it, pivot if needed, and then do it again.
But that's not all there is to it. What you build in each of these incremental releases depends on what your objective is. If you're trying to figure out whether a new product or service is viable. You probably should release a minimum viable product
Orlando Sequera: for my apologies.
Minimum viable product is often a prototype where some functionality is simulated or even performed manually. The idea is to do just enough work to get something in front of potential customers and learn what they really want, because a minimum viable product is an investment for discovery.
If you are expanding or enhancing an existing product or service, you probably should release a minimum business increment.
A minimum business increment is the smallest releasesable chunk of value that makes sense from a business perspective. A minimum business increment is an investment for revenue
minimum business increments offer several benefits.
They add value for your customers.
They help you determine. If you're building the right thing.
they help you figure out. If you're building the right way.
they give you a way to determine if what you're building is actually useful.
and they enhance your ability to deliver value in the future
minimum. Business increments are one of the most useful concepts in agile.
perfect for setting your agile increment.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: couple of things with the video. These 2 concepts, Mvp. And Mbi are agile concepts.
Orlando Sequera: and Mvp. The keyword associated with Mvp. Is bird Bones functionality. If you're starting with a new
Orlando Sequera: product service of results, something that is new.
Orlando Sequera: Think of
Orlando Sequera: For example, we're trying to build a messaging app to compete with Whatsapp right or Whatsapp, for example, version one when Whatsapp first came out to market, that is an Mvp. That's an example of an Mvp. We did enough
Orlando Sequera: discovering or enough planning to come up with a prototype to come out to market right based on initial customer preferences at the time, and they came on with. They came out with Bur Bones functionary that was back in 2,006. If i'm not mistaken when they first came out.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning they were only targeting iphone users, Ios users not android. So the first version of Whatsapp what's only a available for we're available in the app store for iphone users
Orlando Sequera: that they came out to market with that, and it was very simple, a very simple, messaging application. But you are going to that is your Mvp. That is your Mvp. Then over time you start adding enhancements.
Orlando Sequera: adding improvements based on what your customers are telling you a. What adds the most value to them.
Orlando Sequera: And over time. Your product, service, or result is going to become more robust.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we call Mbi. So the key word that I want you to associate with Mvp. Is new product.
Orlando Sequera: It's a prototype new product to come out to market. And that's why in the video that we're saying is an investment for a discovery.
Orlando Sequera: hey? It's a new product.
Orlando Sequera: But when it comes to Mbi I want you to think of
Orlando Sequera: exist enhancements the the word, the key word associated with an Mbi is enhancement.
Orlando Sequera: And over time that's going to make it more robust. Okay, so couple of things that I wanted to
Orlando Sequera: a to point out
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to Mbi and Mvps.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: another important aspect related to scope is that
Orlando Sequera: even though
Orlando Sequera: the product roadmap started originally in agile approaches or adaptive approaches. They are so helpful
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to development that they also that's what it's used nowadays.
Orlando Sequera: A 4.
Orlando Sequera: A hybrid approaches. It's used to regardless of the approach. Pro roadmaps are have proven. They're worth, and they're used regardless of the approach they actually use in in in. They can be using predictive. They can be using hybrid, and of course they can be used in agile approaches because they let you.
Orlando Sequera: They focus on the big picture on the big picture, which sometimes, when we get caught up in the details we miss, we we, we're going.
Orlando Sequera: It. It shows that strategy and that direction, and it allows you to focus on value, because at the end of the day what we're trying to achieve that we're trying to remember what we said on day one the definition of success. The success criteria is also tied up to value the we have value with the product. So for a Roman is for
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: a way that allows you to group functionality.
Orlando Sequera: and it allows you to be strategic in making sure that you're not losing side of the big picture, and you're able to focus on what, on the functionality of building the functionality that adds the most value
Orlando Sequera: to your customers, and regardless of the approach. This is a very important aspect. So it's becoming more and more a prevalent.
Orlando Sequera: and allows them to be more successful, so that for a roadmap
Orlando Sequera: approach
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And now
Orlando Sequera: we are going to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: talk about milestones.
Orlando Sequera: Milestones are
Orlando Sequera: significant events that happen in any project. I mean.
Orlando Sequera: remember what we mentioned before about the pro charter. We have a scheduled mountain in the Project Charter, and that is
Orlando Sequera: a way for you
Orlando Sequera: to understand, to have an idea for you as a Pm. And also for your team to have an idea of significant events that are going to be a part of your project at that particular time. But it's a summary milestone level initial. Can that the initial Summer review? Can that change?
Orlando Sequera: Yes, but you need to start somewhere, and that's what you get with the project. Charter: so milestones are
Orlando Sequera: going to be.
Orlando Sequera: There are significant events. They're usually tied up to
Orlando Sequera: a payments decision making, and he helps your stakeholders, and also they help your
Orlando Sequera: They also help
Orlando Sequera: your your team members to understand big events. Review. Significant events that are gonna happen in your project. They usually help in
Orlando Sequera: also making sure that if we have any any reporting requirements
Orlando Sequera: that need to be met before a particular master, the hit to keep, they help everyone to be a on the same page, making sure that we have those reports or those those documents ready before we hit that milestone
Orlando Sequera: A. They can be created by Pms. In the schedule, or customers and
Orlando Sequera: milestones are also tied up to payments. They can indicate payments. So we completed phase one. You should. We can type payments to that completion of pay face one. So our procurement department or purchasing department, can actually make payments to suppliers, for example, Sir Rape.
Orlando Sequera: They they're great. They have great use. When you build your schedules you need to identify
Orlando Sequera: Do you need to identify masters and make sure that you use them. In some cases you're going to have mandatory milestones for those of you that have had the chance to work with the government. You know exactly what I mean you, or even in the private sector as well. There's some
Orlando Sequera: requirements by contracts, or legislation, or loss, or regulations that have mandatory milestones, or in some cases we can use some best practices. That's a but you should use milestones nonetheless.
Orlando Sequera: all right
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: planning the scope.
Orlando Sequera: Scope is.
Orlando Sequera: as I mentioned before, a very important
Orlando Sequera: aspect of any project this can make or break their project. If you don't get the scope right.
Orlando Sequera: Everything else that you build around your project is going, is it's not gonna work? Okay?
Orlando Sequera: A scope
Orlando Sequera: covers
Orlando Sequera: an important aspect and or the foundation of the scope. Let me put it that way are going to be the requirements for your project.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to be the requirements for your project. Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: this this is where you as a project manager, you have to help your team
Orlando Sequera: and work with your team members
Orlando Sequera: in making sure that you collect the requirements in a very thorough way. You know it. It it's a very thorough process that you have to follow.
Orlando Sequera: You have to
Orlando Sequera: collect these requirements using multiple
Orlando Sequera: tools and techniques is not just brainstorming, and you might think, oh, why, Don't, we get everyone
Orlando Sequera: in that conference room and start asking them about the requirements that should be enough
Orlando Sequera: to a gather requirements. So
Orlando Sequera: it's way much more than that. That's one way, by the way. By no means. I'm saying, that's not. That's not
Orlando Sequera: That that's not one way of gathering requirements, but requirements are
Orlando Sequera: can come in any way, shape or form. You should use more than one technique.
Orlando Sequera: You should use more than one technique. That's only one. We're going to talk about those techniques in in in a few minutes.
Orlando Sequera: as they are identified as the requirements are collected, they should be documented.
Orlando Sequera: We have a couple of documents that are mentioned here. The scope statement that contains a description of the scope of the work, and then
Orlando Sequera: a very important artifact for your
Orlando Sequera: for your project, which is going to be the work. Breakdown structure that we're break the structure. We're going to talk about about that in a little bit more detail. That is a a graphic representation of the entire scope of the project. That is, is, is crucial. That's for predictive projects.
Orlando Sequera: the equivalent of the war breakdown structure
Orlando Sequera: in, add your projects is the product backlog.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But the word break. This structure is for
Orlando Sequera: projects that are following a predictive approach, and the equivalent in agile is going to be the product backlog. Okay, but that those are the artifacts that are going to allow us to manage this scope of our projects, regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: And then from there
Orlando Sequera: we're going to have the foundation that is going to help us to then work and develop
Orlando Sequera: all the areas of our project, like the schedule
Orlando Sequera: budget, resource and quality plans, Everything is going to be around the scope. We have to get this right. We have to get the requirements right. We have to get the scope right, because everything else, everything else in our project
Orlando Sequera: schedule, but your resources, quality, everything else, is going to be built around the scope of our project
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to add your projects.
Orlando Sequera: This toward of the scope
Orlando Sequera: is going to be the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that's the liaison
Orlando Sequera: between the business and
Orlando Sequera: the and the team.
Orlando Sequera: There is an individual in charge of creating the pro backlog, which is the equivalent of the Wbs in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: and the team members are going to
Orlando Sequera: be the ones that are estimating the effort associated with building that functionality that is contained in the pro backlock.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: And they're the ones that are going, and and we write requirements in agile in a different way. We use the concept of a user. Story. That's why that's how we write requirements in agile. But we need to understand requirements, regardless of the approach. We need to understand requirements.
Orlando Sequera: But the team members they're the ones that estimate the effort.
Orlando Sequera: They're the ones that
Orlando Sequera: decide how much work can be completed in each iteration, and they're the ones that are going to be sequencing the work that is going to be done to deliver those requirements so a little bit different. We do scope planning, regardless of the approach.
Orlando Sequera: That's how it happens in Agile. It is very structure the way it happens in predictive. Okay, we collect requirements. Then we document those requirements. We prepare a scope statement and we build
Orlando Sequera: a structure that is called the War breakdown structure. And then we build everything else around that
Orlando Sequera: or break the structure. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna we're gonna
Orlando Sequera: be working on him? The questions after we come back from break. We're going to start answering some of the questions
Orlando Sequera: as, as, as we mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: A. We are going to get started with requirements. This is the foundation of the scope. So
Orlando Sequera: that's this project. That's this kind of project. They start with requirements, and
Orlando Sequera: the answer is, Yes.
Orlando Sequera: if the answer is yes. In predicted projects
Orlando Sequera: requirements are elicited and set at the beginning of the project. So if you need to start with requirements, that's a hint for predictive that might be your best bet the project the the project has to start by collecting those requirements and the at the very beginning. But what about sort of
Orlando Sequera: if the answer is, sort of do we get? Do we get started? Then user? Stories are a different way of thinking about the requirement process that's giving you a hint for agile. But if the answer is, maybe then it, you might have a combination. Their hybrid projects are going to elicit and refine a requirements or compose
Orlando Sequera: user stories.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: requirements.
Orlando Sequera: What I? What do I mean by requirements
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: one single.
Orlando Sequera: This is a textbook definition. By the way, one single measurable statement of a condition or capability.
Orlando Sequera: We
Orlando Sequera: think of a software project
Orlando Sequera: a requirement could be to generate to build a monthly sales report.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following an edge. That approach. We're going to be writing that
Orlando Sequera: requirement in the form of a user story, or I need to be able to log in
Orlando Sequera: a every another requirement for that accounting software could be. I need to be able to log in without
Orlando Sequera: creating a new.
Orlando Sequera: a username and password.
Orlando Sequera: or that software that that could be another requirement. Or let's go back to the house we're building a house.
Orlando Sequera: A requirement. Is
Orlando Sequera: for example.
Orlando Sequera: a we
Orlando Sequera: are building a one-story house in the South Florida area
Orlando Sequera: that needs to meet the
Orlando Sequera: county and city and county guidelines for the the building code for the city and for the county that needs to meet the building code, Basically, For example, this exterior structure has to be
Orlando Sequera: built, using concrete
Orlando Sequera: to withstand
Orlando Sequera: up to category 3 hurricanes we need. That's a hard requirement. That is a actual requirement that is coming from a compliance. That's a compliance requirement. Remember that we mentioned compliance on day one
Orlando Sequera: but another requirement could be we coming from the customer, saying we would like to have tile floors or carpet floors for the rooms. That's another requirement, or another requirement is that
Orlando Sequera: the exterior walls are painted in white white color for exterior walls and internal walls are painted in gray, for example or blue.
Orlando Sequera: That's another requirement or another requirement could be that that we have a metal roof.
Orlando Sequera: or
Orlando Sequera: that we have a single proof.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, those are requirements. It's something that we can measure if something that related to a condition or a capability.
Orlando Sequera: And it also tells how the product service of result in this case. In this example the House satisfies a business need. So we're building that one story house for a particular customer to meet their business needs. Okay, a
Orlando Sequera: few guidelines for requirements. We should start at a high level before we get into the details, but it is extremely extremely important that we get this right they shouldn't be
Orlando Sequera: ambiguous.
Orlando Sequera: and by that I mean
Orlando Sequera: they should be. You should be able to measure their requirement, and you should be able to test the requirement, regardless of the approach, regardless of the approach, you should be able to trace the requirement to what? To your deliverables
Orlando Sequera: at the end of the day. What we do with our projects is to produce deliverables.
Orlando Sequera: Producing the neighborhoods means
Orlando Sequera: producing building those requirements.
Orlando Sequera: You have it. It's a relationship right. Your deliberables are going to be tied up to your requirements. It's not always
Orlando Sequera: one to 1 one deliverable tied up to one requirement. No, it can be one too many, but at the end of the day, in the other, in the far end of the spectrum
Orlando Sequera: we have requirements that tell us what type of house are we going to be building? And then we're going to ask. We produce
Orlando Sequera: those requirements with our project work. That is, this couple of project. Then we're going to be producing those deliverables, and that's when the house comes to fruition right with the middle roof. Why is it metal and not shingles? Because the requirement was to build a house with metal roof. Why is the house painting in white for exterior walls?
Orlando Sequera: That was the requirement, so we should be able to
Orlando Sequera: keep those aligned, and we should be able to trace our deliverables. What we produce with our work all the way back to requirements, and for that we use
Orlando Sequera: another document that is gonna help. That is called requirements traceability, matrix, and that is going to help us to trace back what we produce
Orlando Sequera: with our work all the way back to
Orlando Sequera: their requirements. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: this can be simple.
Orlando Sequera: They listen the requirements and categorize by priority, or it can be more elaborate with detailed descriptions, detailed attachments. This is just just a a quick
Orlando Sequera: A quick example. For for you to visualize what the requirements flexibility, matrix. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: important concept. So we are ready for a first break when we come back. I'm: going to be reviewing the questions
Orlando Sequera: and in the Q. A. And we're going to continue with the content. All right.
Orlando Sequera: So enjoy your break, and we will be back
Orlando Sequera: all right. Welcome back, everyone. We're gonna continue with the class. but we're gonna start by
Orlando Sequera: answering some of the questions.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. There is a question
Orlando Sequera: that I would like to address before we continue is there.
Orlando Sequera: Can you please make a practical example of running wave? Planning
Orlando Sequera: is widely used in
Orlando Sequera: new product development.
Orlando Sequera: right? When you start to develop, let's assume that we are a working on
Orlando Sequera: developing
Orlando Sequera: as software application
Orlando Sequera: for messaging or for
Orlando Sequera: streaming movies. And in
Orlando Sequera: in the
Orlando Sequera: and we're trying to compete with Netflix to get in that space this thing plus Netflix, Amazon, prime, etc. Right? That's our our new product in this case a new service, not a new product. So, but it's new right. It's new.
Orlando Sequera: and we have been able to
Orlando Sequera: plan out. We we estimate it that it's gonna take us 8 months
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: come out to Market
Orlando Sequera: A. But we plan really well with what we know. This is something that we haven't done before, but with the information that we have right now
Orlando Sequera: we were able to plan and map out the first 3 months of this development process, but after that.
Orlando Sequera: after the 3 months we we need more information. We need to validate customer preferences. We need to validate some of our assumptions, and we don't really have any way of
Orlando Sequera: at this particular point in time. We need to go through those 3 months that we know exactly what we need to do to gather more information and then map out or plan out the rest
Orlando Sequera: of the other 5 months that we have been able to determine, and maybe we come to the conclusion that we need not. 5 more months we might need 6 more months, or 7 more months. We
Orlando Sequera: only know what we know at this particular moment. But there's so many variables, so many questions at this moment that we don't know about this. The rest of the scope of the application or the service that we're trying to build that. Let's focus on what we know. Well build it. Well.
Orlando Sequera: more information is going to become available, and then we can plan out properly to be more efficient
Orlando Sequera: A with that
Orlando Sequera: with with our with our resources. Another example that I can give you from Aerospace. When the art of this program started right.
Orlando Sequera: The intention was to build a new spacecraft.
Orlando Sequera: the Orion spacecraft.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: we started
Orlando Sequera: when we started working on on the Artemis program. We only we had information, and we have. We had lessons learned from previous programs. We had the the Apollo program, but that was in in a different era. But most recently the the actual shutter program.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And there were a few things that are similar.
Orlando Sequera: And we started by working on those areas of the scope. What we knew
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: from this shuttle program. But this is a spacecraft. This is not a shuttle. There were many differences, so we had to do work and develop and understand, do some development and and do some work. We were able to plan some of it, but we needed additional information to
Orlando Sequera: plan out the rest of the work, more information needed to become available, and that's in that case we use the rolling wave planning approach. Okay, more information became available. So that's
Orlando Sequera: a more and more and more Organizations are doing that because they and you might be wondering Why are they doing that? Why don't they map out everything. They should know everything. No. Remember that environments are more more and more complex. There's a lot of complexity there's a lot of changes happening nowadays, so organizations are trying to be as
Orlando Sequera: efficient as possible when it comes to using the resources. And this approach is becoming more and more prevalent with rolling wave planning. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: That's a
Orlando Sequera: That's a great question.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. How does the product manager of the semester work together? Okay, to
Orlando Sequera: similar skill set for different.
Orlando Sequera: This chrome master is going to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that the team and the stakeholders are following
Orlando Sequera: from practices. It's also going to serve as a buffer to protect the team, to shield the team, and it's going to remove impediments acting as a servant leader for this chrome team. But the project manager covers all their areas.
Orlando Sequera: They we have a schedule that we have to manage. We have the scope that we have to manage. We have the budget that we have to manage so similar skills in some ways. But those organizations that have a
Orlando Sequera: scrum masters and a project managers.
Orlando Sequera: They complement each other, and they don't
Orlando Sequera: our step boundaries, that those lines are well defined, so they work together. They
Orlando Sequera: it's perfectly fine to work it together, but it's a little bit of a different skill. Set
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: okay. Let me continue to review the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Are there any common or highly recommended tools or creating the roadmap? Absolutely. There are tools out there like Trello or Jira.
Orlando Sequera: or version one. There are multiple tools out there that can help you to create a roadmap
Orlando Sequera: whatsoever. Besides Microsoft project to manage
Orlando Sequera: for project management world. You have Primavera, you have Trello. They do have a work day. There are tons of software out there that can help you with.
Orlando Sequera: With that it's not just
Orlando Sequera: It's not just a micro project.
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference
Orlando Sequera: oops? My apologies?
Orlando Sequera: Do you mean to do that?
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: what is the difference between masters and the backlog? Well, the backlog is a container
Orlando Sequera: that we use in edge of projects to
Orlando Sequera: that can, what what we can, what
Orlando Sequera: it's, a container. The product backlog is a container that we use in edge of projects for the functionality
Orlando Sequera: that needs to be developed by the project team in that agile project. If those that function is represented in the form of user stories and remember that user stories. That's how we write requirements in agile
Orlando Sequera: A a milestone is a significant event
Orlando Sequera: in the project. So 2 different things.
Orlando Sequera: totally different things.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this was the answer.
Orlando Sequera: we celebrate a little bit. On the next we metaphor.
Orlando Sequera: Let's try to ask the questions that are related to the content that we're covering really quick. The Xp metaphor is simply to we're trying to understand
Orlando Sequera: the vision of the project, and it's simply
Orlando Sequera: a way to represent the characteristics. I'm trying to. We're trying to build a new music app the compete with Pandora. We want this music app to be able to read my
Orlando Sequera: to re our minds and play this some based on our current emotional state. That's a metaphor, right? So it's some. It's a way to understand the vision of the project.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So some questions. I'm going to continue
Orlando Sequera: with the
Orlando Sequera: content
Orlando Sequera: Project Scope is bigger than pro scope. Actually, no is the other way around.
Orlando Sequera: It's the other way around you many multiple projects to deliver the entire product scope. Remember the graphic that we that we saw yesterday many multiple projects to that
Orlando Sequera: are gonna fit in in that broader life cycle. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: the point is
Orlando Sequera: product scope is about functionality. It's about features. Imagine a car, for example, the engine, the how many mass per gallon, the interior, the exterior, the characteristics that's functionality.
Orlando Sequera: But they work that needs to be done to produce that car. That is project scope.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and he might be multiple projects that you need in order to produce and build that car. So pro products scope is of a functionality project scope is about the work that needs to be done to produce, to build that
Orlando Sequera: a to build that product in this case. But it could also be a service, and it could also be a result.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: can we go over rolling plan Broadway planning? We did.
Orlando Sequera: Backlog is a repository.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: in the in the Q. A. I keep saying chat. My apologies is in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: okay, Can this chrome master and project manager functions be performed by the same person? Absolutely. Yes, yes, that's perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: the backlog is essentially a repository of all the material support in the scope, not the material. It's about the functionality that needs to be built in our project, their requirements.
Orlando Sequera: What we have in the backlog are the requirements that the team has to build for that particular project. It's a repository of the the requirements we write
Orlando Sequera: requirements in agile using user. Stories. Okay, so that's what we mean, but it is a container, but a container of what a container of the functionality, a container of the requirements that we have to build in our agile project, and we call those requirements user stories.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So let's go ahead and continue.
Orlando Sequera: and with the content.
Orlando Sequera: One more question that I would like to address in agile. The scrum team performs the estimation, Yes, in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: who will perform the estimation and break down the tasks.
Orlando Sequera: Good question and the answer is ideally also the people doing the work
Orlando Sequera: we can help as project managers.
Orlando Sequera: but ideally, even in predictive, the recommendation is to have the people doing the work be the ones to estimate, doing the estimation as well. Remember that for
Orlando Sequera: the exam as well, the people that are doing the work ideally should be the ones also estimating the effort and breaking down that effort
Orlando Sequera: into tasks.
Orlando Sequera: It's a recommendation in predictive. But in agile is a mosque. That's what we mean by self-organized and self-managed, Nigel. They simply know that's how it is the people that are doing the work are the ones estimating and are the ones breaking down those user stories from the backlog into tasks. That's
Orlando Sequera: a black box for the project. Managers a black box for everyone else is up to the team. That's what we mean by self-manage, but
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: For the for teams that are following a predictive approach is a recommendation. It's a recommendation not necessarily happens that way, but it's a recommendation that the people doing the work They're the most familiar
Orlando Sequera: with the word that needs to be done. Therefore they should be, they once
Orlando Sequera: doing the estimation, and also helping for the project manager with breaking down those requirements into tasks. At least they should be at the very least they should be involved in the process.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's a good question. All right. So let's continue with the content.
Orlando Sequera: Scope is so important that we have
Orlando Sequera: 2 plans.
Orlando Sequera: We need one specific plan for requirements, and then we're also going to have
Orlando Sequera: a specific plan for scope. It. It is so important, because, the requirements being the foundation of every single project. We need to plan for those requirements to make sure that we are a
Orlando Sequera: we. We are following a thorough process, and that we are covering all the basis. We need a specific strategy, a specific plan for those requirements. We need to know how we are gonna gather those requirements, how we're gonna track those requirements because they're gonna be changing.
Orlando Sequera: How are we going to be reporting on those requirements? And we need to plan for that. That's where an important aspect that we call configuration management is going to help us tremendously, because, as requirements evolve
Orlando Sequera: over time that can change.
Orlando Sequera: We need to have
Orlando Sequera: got rails in place that are gonna help us to make sure that we're working with the latest and greatest version of those requirements. That's where configuration management. It comes into play.
Orlando Sequera: With version control rules and impact analysis on those changes, and it's also going to specify the level of authorization that we need for change approvals
Orlando Sequera: the protestation criteria, and also metrics that are, and the rationale that comes with those metrics. And what is the traceability structure like the requirements, traceability, matrix that we saw? What are we going to use to keep track of those changes of those requirements? Because
Orlando Sequera: the requirements are going to be changing it not only in agile projects, also in
Orlando Sequera: in our. If, if we're building the house, following a predictive approach requirements can change our a. Our customers can say
Orlando Sequera: we do not want to have a a middle roof anymore. We want to use a tile Spanish tiles for for the roof instead of metal. That's a change
Orlando Sequera: it so how can we
Orlando Sequera: document that? That was an actual change? That's what the requirements management plan is going to help us with. So the author, what is the authorization who authorize this change? Because when we deliver the house
Orlando Sequera: we have, we have to have a way to show to our customer. Well, Mr. Mr. Mrs. Customer, this this is a house. Build to your specifications, to your requirements, based on requirements that we got. Oh, but we one in the middle roof. We didn't want a a Spanish style roof. What? What happened? No, this is
Orlando Sequera: This is the actual approval on changing the roof from metal to Spanish style to prevent those situations, we gotta have that under control, but we cannot be making those rules as we are building the house, or we shouldn't. At least that's why we plan for that before we're we're in the planning status of the project.
Orlando Sequera: That's why we're planning on how we're going to do that. How we're going to keep those requirements in under control. They changes. Can they change. Yes, but we need to keep track of those changes. That's that plan effort.
Orlando Sequera: The outcome is going to be this requirements management plan
Orlando Sequera: because requirements are
Orlando Sequera: they come in
Orlando Sequera: multiple
Orlando Sequera: the ways they are
Orlando Sequera: the and this is for, by the way, this is for predicted projects.
Orlando Sequera: requirements can come in any way, shape or form you have.
Orlando Sequera: you might have
Orlando Sequera: project requirements. Imagine, if you have an actual Pmo in place, there might be some project requirements that you have to meet. Every single project in your organization has to meet those requirements.
Orlando Sequera: But you're also gonna have
Orlando Sequera: functional requirements. Product requirements. That's what we call product requirements. They are tied up to functional reform.
Orlando Sequera: to functional features. And then non functional features. What you're building is they're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: functional requirements and non functional requirements. These are features characterist. This is tied up directly to the product, right to the service or the result that we're building. Okay, a.
Orlando Sequera: And really important, that we define those.
Orlando Sequera: but we might also have quality requirements that we need to meet based on our a quality policy based on the industry we might be break. It might be a highly regulated industry.
Orlando Sequera: For example, health care, medical device, manufacturing may be highly regulated, so we might have some quality standards that we have to meet as well. Those are requirements as well.
Orlando Sequera: Then we also might have business requirements.
Orlando Sequera: And this is where those business analysts can help us with defining and collecting this business requirements. And for some of you you might be familiar with a Brd. That's a business requirement documentation
Orlando Sequera: that is tied up to this specific type of requirement. But that's not the only type of requirement. You might also have stakeholder requirements. Going back to your
Orlando Sequera: a stakeholder register. Some of your stakeholders might have told you
Orlando Sequera: their preferences when it comes to reporting.
Orlando Sequera: and those are stakeholder requirements. So you need to take those into account, and then you might also have
Orlando Sequera: transition.
Orlando Sequera: slash readiness, requirements before your project transitions to reduction before your product your product service resource is deployed to a live environment, and it starts being used by your customer. Okay, so multiple types of requirements.
Orlando Sequera: And that's the reason why, when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: a gathering requirements or collecting requirements. We have to
Orlando Sequera: make sure that we use multiple techniques to collect these requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Multiple techniques is not just okay. Let's get everyone in a conference room. Our customers. The stakeholders and the list are whiteboarding their requirements. We start doing that, and that should be enough. No, that's one technique based. It's one technique. You see it on their data gathering. But
Orlando Sequera: you should use multiple techniques, and the reason is
Orlando Sequera: due to the fact that, as we just saw in the previous slide requirements can come in any way, shape or form. So you should use more than one technique.
Orlando Sequera: Expert judgment is one technique. We mentioned that yesterday this
Orlando Sequera: mainly comes. This is the expertise that your team members, your product team members, have. They have worked in similar projects. They have built a similar accounting, a similar software to compared to the accounting software that they're working on, or they have
Orlando Sequera: worked in a similar project before they have built the same type of house before multiple times, that expertise. They might help you with gathering requirements. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: this is what we have done in the past. We deal with this information, and we deal with a similar project in the past, and these are the requirements that we that we can think of. So that is expert judgment mainly from the subject matter experts, but you can also use
Orlando Sequera: in your personal team skills.
Orlando Sequera: You can use observation or job shadowing you. You can uncover a lot. And this is something that I have personally used
Orlando Sequera: multiple times, With other in many projects. When I've tried to uncover some requirements because your
Orlando Sequera: customer, they usually are very familiar with their with their daily operations. They
Orlando Sequera: you're trying to develop a new software then you start asking them what what are the requirements that you need to to have in this accounting software? So they tell you usually what they're familiar with, what they use on a daily basis. But maybe there is this report that they only generate every 3 months
Orlando Sequera: that they don't think about so.
Orlando Sequera: But we went to uncover those requirements as well. So that's where observation we job shadow incomes really into plates.
Orlando Sequera: and it's basically, okay, Mr. Mrs. Customer, I would like to spend a few hours with you. I'm gonna be a
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to be with you observing what you're doing in your daily tasks, and i'm going to be making some notes. I'm going to be gathering requirements that way. So you just work as you normally do, and i'm just going to be paying attention to what you're doing. I'm going to be carrying requirements that way or facilitation. Of course you're going to have some guided sessions to start working on your a on gathering requirements, if
Orlando Sequera: you might be leading that in many cases your role as the Pm. Is going to be that of the facilitator, the moderator of those discussions, you might have some groups of a group of stakeholders working with the team members in trying to uncover a some of those requirements, but
Orlando Sequera: you might use additional techniques like brainstorming.
Orlando Sequera: getting everybody together, talking about the requirements. They also interviews with some specific users in a more controlled setting. You might use focus groups, which is a little bit it's an iteration of brainstorming
Orlando Sequera: a, or an evolution of brainstorming. Not an iteration or brainstorming an evolution of brainstorming in which you do have some a specific topics that you want to cover, and then you focus on that and address those areas of your of the product service of result that you're trying to address.
Orlando Sequera: But you can also a there's something that is gonna happen
Orlando Sequera: in a group setting, and that is bias.
Orlando Sequera: There are gonna be some people that are gonna take over
Orlando Sequera: the conversation. They're going to take over the sessions under the extroverts are going to take over the introverts are not.
Orlando Sequera: They might have great input, but you are they? They might feel a little intimidated in sharing that input.
Orlando Sequera: or even worse than that, they might fall through the trap of group thinking. We want to avoid that. We went to collect every single requirement, so to reduce bias. We can also send questioners to people, and also for the sake of time, right? Because it's not always possible to get everyone in the same room, same questioners or surveys.
Orlando Sequera: and you can use benchmarking compared to similar products in the past. Of course. Review documentation. That's why we work with Opas.
Orlando Sequera: That's why we gather. OP: it's review documentation. That is applicable to the to the project. You might uncover requirements by doing that. A.
Orlando Sequera: For
Orlando Sequera: a mainly natural projects. You can.
Orlando Sequera: or even in predicted products as well you can perform. You can use voting on what needs to be what is a requirement? What should be a requirement? You can perform analysis of multi criteria reviewing requirements, and then you can start grouping those requirements
Orlando Sequera: together in categories to avoid duplication and to make sure you start classifying those requirements that's where mind mapping comes into play. It's an evolution of brainstorming. When you start
Orlando Sequera: grouping categories, those requirements, and then affidity, diagram very similar as well. It's a way to classify those requirements as well.
Orlando Sequera: or in some cases, when especially when you're trying e. When you're working with a scope that is rather complex, the requirements around complex. You might build in some cases a prototype in order to
Orlando Sequera: a gather more feedback, more input from your customers. So, as you can see multiple techniques, multiple ways, multiple tools that we have tools and techniques that we have available to gather requirements
Orlando Sequera: because requirements can come in any way, shape or form.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: how to collect requirements. when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to to your projects and
Orlando Sequera: it, we can use interviews.
Orlando Sequera: They, these interviews can be structured on structure, and the goal is to understand features and and and functions.
Orlando Sequera: You can send question, what are the advantages that come with the interviews
Orlando Sequera: you can handle. Sensitive, confidential information may have some privacy, because you're containing, you know, with a group setting. You may have individual interviews, and that is something that I would personally recommend with key stakeholders. I will have an interview with key stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: to understand really well their take on requirements, but it has some limitations or some drawbacks. It usually captures only a single point of view.
Orlando Sequera: You can also use questioners and surveys. You capture information from a large group.
Orlando Sequera: It's a quick turnaround. It has multiple advantages, and it can give you quantity file 25 or data, but it can be time consuming and
Orlando Sequera: the data, and it's going to be the the quality of the data that you get is going to be based on the
Orlando Sequera: What are the other questions? Right garbage in garbage out. In some cases, Unfortunately, observation, this is about job shadowing. It's a physical technique, learning it. It. It. It's a great it's a great way to
Orlando Sequera: uncover requirements for observation, job shadowing and the team can understand. It gives an an edge to the team members to understand where changes can be beneficial. They might uncover some a redundant steps that that their customers are taking, or
Orlando Sequera: they they might find improvements by doing that
Orlando Sequera: focus groups. You have moderators talking about specific topics. It's not just open-ended. You have the specific topics or areas of the product service of result. That You would like to a address for requirements, you might have pre-selected participants.
Orlando Sequera: A and small groups for focus approach to be more successful. But this requires that your stakeholders are pre-qualified, and that your subject matter experts are being the ones that are guiding the discussion and facilities and facilitating
Orlando Sequera: you can have facilitated workshops
Orlando Sequera: usually facilitated by you as a Pm. The goal here is to capture requirements.
Orlando Sequera: and another advantage is that
Orlando Sequera: the stakeholders understand the concerns and requirements of others.
Orlando Sequera: They bought.
Orlando Sequera: The key aspect is to make sure that facilitation you have to. That is on you. You're mainly going to be the facilitator. Make sure that we do not go. We stick to the goal, which is to uncover requirements so multiple ways that can help you
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to requirements. It's, and it's about communication. This is where your soft skills are going to come handy. Your facilitation skills are a important
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: for data gathering benchmark.
Orlando Sequera: benchmarking.
Orlando Sequera: It is
Orlando Sequera: it can help you, and it's basically comparing to something that was done in the past.
Orlando Sequera: And you can even compare to in some cases, if you have that information available to, compared to some other best practices of other organizations, if at all, if at all possible. Okay, and that can help you to identify, to identify some best practices that could be useful in your a
Orlando Sequera: in your process of collecting requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Some can we remember some of the other methods. We said, that we use
Orlando Sequera: brainstorming.
Orlando Sequera: We said that we use interviews, focus groups and questioners and surveys.
Orlando Sequera: but
Orlando Sequera: great.
Orlando Sequera: You may be wondering.
Orlando Sequera: We have tons of requirements. We have tons of requirements. And we're followed our
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Is everything gonna make it to our project? We we we use all those multiple techniques, and we uncover hundreds of or or thousands of requirements for a project.
Orlando Sequera: Is everything going to make it to the project?
Orlando Sequera: This your answer is, no.
Orlando Sequera: We have to
Orlando Sequera: prioritize these requirements, not because we were able to identify them.
Orlando Sequera: All of those requirements are going to make it to our project, and you might be wondering
Orlando Sequera: why is that
Orlando Sequera: we you been 10 min that we have to use multiple techniques and gather as many requirements as possible. But remember.
Orlando Sequera: we have limited resources. We Don't have an unlimited amount of money and an unlimited amount of time, and an unlimited
Orlando Sequera: army of people that is going to be working on this project. We have limited resources. Therefore we have to prioritize those requirements for that we have multiple techniques. First, one is
Orlando Sequera: what we call the most cow analysis, and the Moscow is no, not Russia's capital it is
Orlando Sequera: it comes from they must have.
Orlando Sequera: should have
Orlando Sequera: good half and one half.
Orlando Sequera: We need to define
Orlando Sequera: what's going to be in scope.
Orlando Sequera: Those are the requirements that are going to be making it to the project
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: We need to define what requirements are going to be out of scope, at least
Orlando Sequera: at at a particular. This particular moment. Can that change in the future? Yes; but if we're following a predictive approach, this has to be on through following a change control process. That's how we can keep our scope
Orlando Sequera: under control. That's how we can prevent something that some of you have mentioned Scope Creek. How do we prevent scope trip by using a change control process that evaluates the impact of changes and approves
Orlando Sequera: it changes or rejects changes.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we keep those changes under control, and we keep.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go. We prevent scope, creep from happening. But this perturbation technique. Some of the requirements are going to be the most halves, and this is
Orlando Sequera: a process that we have to
Orlando Sequera: It follow with our stakeholders to make those decisions. Not everything is a must have. We have to prioritize. We need to understand what is a must have. What is that should have? What is it could have? So we can start prioritizing those requirements is commonly used in agile software development.
Orlando Sequera: And we also have the Cana model. And this is where we start understanding a. What our
Orlando Sequera: the delighters, what are, or excitement the satisfiers, the satisfires, and in different a
Orlando Sequera: categories when it comes to requirements, and the goal is to this is mostly for projects that you're you're taking into account customer satisfaction, loyalty, marketing projects. They widely use this kind of model for their prioritization it. You can also do
Orlando Sequera: a per comparison analysis, and you can compare a alternatives by comparing one against the other, and that works well. If you have a small number of requirements
Orlando Sequera: or another common technique that is widely used.
Orlando Sequera: For requirement prior to session is the hunt. The 100 points method is basically a given a 100 points to your stakeholders. That's all they have, and they can spend those points in the requirements. And that's
Orlando Sequera: how we can. And the requirements. I have the most points. Those are going to be the ones that they are going to be given a higher priority compared to the ones that get the list points. It's good to some of the advantages that come with a 100 points. Method is that it's good for any size group, and
Orlando Sequera: even even a large group. It it's it's applicable. It's gonna work, and it gives priority to stakeholder decisions so they can spend their points and the requirements that get the most points. Those are the ones that are going to make it to the scope of the project requirements that have less points. Those are going to be.
Orlando Sequera: Those are not going to be part of the scope of the project. You can think of the scope also as a boundary. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to
Orlando Sequera: representing data, we have to map that data. As we said before, we have
Orlando Sequera: tons of requirements are going to be making it to your
Orlando Sequera: They they're making it
Orlando Sequera: to the list. And we need to group those those
Orlando Sequera: those requirements. So we had it. We're gonna consolidate the outcome of those brainstorming sessions into a single map, so we can find commonality and differences, and then we can start generate. So we avoid duplication and repetition. So we can start working in
Orlando Sequera: in generating more a requirements. And then the affiliate diagram, we can start. We can set categories a different areas of the project, right. So, for example, for the
Orlando Sequera: and for your software, Accounting software, some areas that are tied up to regulations, some areas, some requirements are tied up to regulations. Some requirements are tied up to
Orlando Sequera: A. For example, reporting
Orlando Sequera: and some requirements are tied up to a it. Infrastructure so different areas. And that's that's an example of an affinity diagram. So we can group them the requirements into categories. So you can classify them and have a better visual.
Orlando Sequera: When a. So you're more strategic about it.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Another tool that you can use to visualize
Orlando Sequera: and your
Orlando Sequera: they They not only the requirements, and the scope of your project is
Orlando Sequera: the context diagram.
Orlando Sequera: and this can help you with bigger picture.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that what we said before ideally, we should have a holistic approach, and by having a holistic approach we can also uncover requirements for our project.
Orlando Sequera: One way of doing that.
Orlando Sequera: Let's assume that our project is, for example, to create a new
Orlando Sequera: registration, a student registration system for a university. Okay, okay. So that is our project. But let's look at the bigger picture. That's another
Orlando Sequera: following this approach or the context diagram can help us to uncover requirements as well. And let's look at a bigger picture. So
Orlando Sequera: we're building a new. We we're gonna develop a new student registration system for a university. But let's look at the bigger picture. What? How is the university related to other
Orlando Sequera: to other areas? Let's build a context diagram right? So
Orlando Sequera: he has ties to the government.
Orlando Sequera: He has ties to the private sector. He has ties to the user community, and that's where we have
Orlando Sequera: professors and students mainly, and administration.
Orlando Sequera: He has ties to the industry, and it also has ties to the education community by doing that by having that holistic approach we can start uncovering a
Orlando Sequera: the relationships
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: start, seeing that even though we're building this new student registration system, this might have impacts in other areas that we might have not been able to uncover before, and that drives new requirements. And so we need to look at the bigger picture as well. That's what
Orlando Sequera: That's the beauty of a context diagram. It can help us to uncover relationships that can translate into possible requirements for our products. So, looking at the bigger picture, how do we do that with a context? Diagram
Orlando Sequera: in some cases
Orlando Sequera: is.
Orlando Sequera: And this happens a lot
Orlando Sequera: in software development. For example, it's really hard to get people
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: verbalize what they're expecting to see in a software application especially because it's something Most people are visual. Most people need to have something tangible in front of them. So sometimes
Orlando Sequera: you can
Orlando Sequera: follow this approach of create a prototype. For example, we're developing the we we're having a hard time with our users. Let's assume for a minute that we're having a hard time with our users providing feedback and input about what are the features. So they want to see
Orlando Sequera: in this accounting software we we have been able to determine that we're not getting really a lot of input on the requirements. That that's a major. No, no. So we have to do something. Okay, let's work on preparing a prototype about the software that
Orlando Sequera: that we can show to them in a, in a relatively
Orlando Sequera: in in in quickly, that we can relatively quickly show them something so they can start, see, and so they can general report.
Orlando Sequera: Of course, let them know. This is based on what we know.
Orlando Sequera: We came up with this prototype, and we would like you, Mr. Mrs. Customer to provide input on this
Orlando Sequera: prototype.
Orlando Sequera: and most people in that.
Orlando Sequera: I've done it multiple times for many teams when they most people are visual when they have something tangible in front of them.
Orlando Sequera: It's like they they. The gates are open flood gates right now. They start. Oh, we don't like that color. No, that's that phone is not correct. No, that's a that.
Orlando Sequera: That's not what. How we want to see the the report. No, we need this. We need. We need that field. We need this.
Orlando Sequera: Got it incorrect. So when you show exactly what they don't want that's when they start talking and you want your stakeholders to talk. That's how you gather requirements. Very powerful, simple, yet powerful, is widely using predictive and and hybrid projects. But it's one way, another way, another
Orlando Sequera: tool and technique that you have available in your toolkit to gather requirements.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: The scope management plan.
Orlando Sequera: This is great. This is a a
Orlando Sequera: one of the most important plans that you have in your project. So we talked about the requirements mentioned plan. Scope is so important that we have 2 plans for scope.
Orlando Sequera: 2 plants.
Orlando Sequera: one specific for requirements that are the foundation of the scope, and then we have one specific for scope. This is going to help us to
Orlando Sequera: review this scope activities, and how the work is going to be done, because ultimately that's the scope of the work it. This has
Orlando Sequera: the processes that we need to follow. To prepare a pros of statement is going to give you
Orlando Sequera: the green light to start working on creating this work breakdown structure
Orlando Sequera: room that detailed for this
Orlando Sequera: is also going to establish how this code, baseline and the scope baseline, is the approved version of your scope that is only going to be changing
Orlando Sequera: through change, control.
Orlando Sequera: a change control process. It's going to tell you how that's going to be changing the rules of the scope in this case, and it's also going to specify how formal acceptance
Orlando Sequera: of project delivers are going to be obtained, and there's not a set way of doing, of
Orlando Sequera: creating the scope mentioned plan. This can be formal, a, or it can be very detailed. It's it's pretty much up to the organization up to your project. It changes
Orlando Sequera: from organization to organization. So this is the strategy that we're going to follow to manage the scope which is the work that we have to come to complete in our project. But I also want you to think of the scope as a boundary. Right? What's in scope?
Orlando Sequera: That's what we have to produce with our project, but some requirements are going to be out of scope.
Orlando Sequera: We don't have to to to to build those requirements. That's why we prioritize, and that's why we select what's in scope.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we have to build. So for the example of the house we have to build a house with a metal roof, and for
Orlando Sequera: for, and not
Orlando Sequera: an and and not that roof with a Spanish shingles or or shingles right? So
Orlando Sequera: that's
Orlando Sequera: that's what we have in scope. So I want you to think of scope as a boundary as well.
Orlando Sequera: The Project Cup statement after we collected our project requirements.
Orlando Sequera: the next step is for you to prepare your project. Scope statement. This is a document that includes all the requirements as specified
Orlando Sequera: for the scope of the project.
Orlando Sequera: and this is an outcome.
Orlando Sequera: an output. I'm: sorry, and i'll put off the plans code process. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A: what do we have in most projects of statement? We have a description of the project and product.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to have acceptance criteria. We're going to have the deliverables that need to be produced in any out of scope items
Orlando Sequera: what is out of scope, so that that are needed for clarification. Remember, not all requirements are going to make it
Orlando Sequera: to the project are going to be part of this couple of projects. Some requirements are going to be out of scope. Some requirements are going to be in scope, and it's also going to list your limitations or constraints and
Orlando Sequera: your assumptions. And, as I mentioned before, and by the way, this is for predicted projects.
Orlando Sequera: once the scope has been approved.
Orlando Sequera: That's when we create our scope, baseline.
Orlando Sequera: and that is the approved version of the scope, and it's only going to be changing
Orlando Sequera: through a change control process. That's how we prevent scope, creep, scope, creep is uncontrolled change. We don't want that. We don't want that change is okay, but it has to be control on control screen on control, change. It's a recipe for destruction. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: changes have to be controlled and we use a change control process for that.
Orlando Sequera: and approved changes are going to be incorporated to the scope. But we have the scope is a is
Orlando Sequera: Think of it, As I mentioned before, as an actual boundary.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: some of the tools and techniques that we use for scope planning. We have to review documentation. We have to use document analysis. We have to use alternative analysis. We use product analysis.
Orlando Sequera: and we look at pro requirements from existing documents, and probably the most important one here is expertise as expert judgment. Ask your subject matter experts
Orlando Sequera: in the project team, and if they're not in the project team, you can go outside of the product team. But you need to get this expertise, even if it's outside of the organization. So ask questions about the product service of result. So you can understand, use characteristics in any other relevant aspects. That is
Orlando Sequera: crucial for you to be successful
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: document, analysis, a alternative analysis. They're going to help you to.
Orlando Sequera: Oh, by the way, by the way.
Orlando Sequera: this here, this what we have here.
Orlando Sequera: this what we have here is one type of question that you might get in your Pmp. Exam, which is the match making you have to. You're going to have
Orlando Sequera: boxes in one site and then you're gonna have
Orlando Sequera: options in another column
Orlando Sequera: in your right side. For example, here one type of question that you might get in your Pmp. Exam. Might be exactly like this. So you have to match
Orlando Sequera: this
Orlando Sequera: options document, analysis, alternative analysis, product, analysis, and expert judgment to what you have in the right. So document analysis
Orlando Sequera: is going to derive new product requirements from existing documents. Alternative analysis is used to consider possible potential options
Orlando Sequera: or approaches to execute and perform the project work.
Orlando Sequera: Then product analysis.
Orlando Sequera: ask questions about a product and form answers to this type. Use characteristics relevant, and then with expert judgment, you will have
Orlando Sequera: to analyze information in it, to develop and the products of statement and any technical detail. So that's the type of question that you might get in your Pmp: Exam: this is just an example.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to product analysis
Orlando Sequera: methods. And this is useful. If you are developing
Orlando Sequera: a product with your project, you're building a new I from we're building a new car. So you want to break down the product into the requirements so you can have an understanding of the work.
Orlando Sequera: You might use systems, engineering systems, analysis, requirements, analysis, value, engineering. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So
okay.
Orlando Sequera: So we are going to take
Orlando Sequera: a break. Now, when we come back from break
Orlando Sequera: we are going to
Orlando Sequera: address some questions and then continue. So we're going to take a 10 min break. When we come back from break we're going to address a few questions, and we'll continue
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: Enjoy your break will be by
Orlando Sequera: which Mark, in a second
Orlando Sequera: my apologies, benchmarking is a comparison
Orlando Sequera: comparing to other projects and a comparing, even in some cases to other, to best practice in the industry.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: We went over the difference and between project and product scope.
Orlando Sequera: Another question. You use a house as a project. If you're building a 20 house development, will the development of the scope and each individual has be a product.
Orlando Sequera: Well.
Orlando Sequera: you each individual has to be a project
Orlando Sequera: it's possible to have. Each individual has to be a project, especially if they're different models. You can look at it
Orlando Sequera: it like that.
Orlando Sequera: Any relatable example of fixed crop approach construction.
Orlando Sequera: construction projects.
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between master and and increments. A maston is a significant event in the project. Building in increments is adding functionality As we progress in the project.
Orlando Sequera: How can we control scope, creep through change control
Orlando Sequera: for through a change control process in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: how that's the type of contracting from the scope we're gonna get to contracts. When we talk about procurement we'll talk about that later.
Orlando Sequera: Is there any technique for defining scope? That's
Orlando Sequera: That's what we we have. We have to prioritize the scope. So we went over those techniques already.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so we're going to continue with the class, and
Orlando Sequera: we'll try to do our best to address
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: to address some of the questions, and
Orlando Sequera: we're going to continue with the class.
Orlando Sequera: and that the next
Orlando Sequera: step in defining our scope super important. And this is for predicted projects. Okay, You see the symbol here. Whenever you see the symbol that means that you have
Orlando Sequera: a that it is.
Orlando Sequera: and we're talking about predictive. All right.
Orlando Sequera: This is really really important.
Orlando Sequera: This is an important part of the scope, because we're going to define the entire the entire scope. We we're going to represent it, using the work, breakdown structure.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the word breakdown structure comes from
Orlando Sequera: a very old principle of dividing and conquering.
Orlando Sequera: Imagine the scope of your project as a big boulder. It's a big boulder that okay, we have to build
Orlando Sequera: a one-story house, and they might. They might sound very straightforward. But imagine
Orlando Sequera: so. Where do we start?
Orlando Sequera: Where do we start? How how do we do that? We're
Orlando Sequera: can, how can we? How can we be as efficient
Orlando Sequera: as possible with the resources that we have. We know the scope, we know the requirements. It is a house, a we we understand the exterior wall requirements, the roof, the foundation requirements, the interior, a structure, requirements, the plumbing, the wiring.
Orlando Sequera: We understand all the requirements that we have to meet with the we there are due diligence in
Orlando Sequera: we in collecting those requirements. But now, how do we? How do we start working? Ha, ha! How do we start working on that project. Where, where do we start? How do we? How do we do that? So that's where the war breakdown structure comes into play. Imagine the scope as a big boulder, for now let's break it into smaller chunks.
Orlando Sequera: Let's break that scope down into smaller chunks. So we start at the top of the War Practice structure. That's the project level. Usually we have to the project name and the prima delivery. Right? Deliver a one story house
Orlando Sequera: in Xyc location. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have a lower level. We start
Orlando Sequera: decomposing. We start dividing and concrete that scope into multiple areas.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have what we call a management control point.
Orlando Sequera: So we can then integrate the scope, and we can have multiple areas. For example, an example of this control account. A level will be okay. Let's divide
Orlando Sequera: our house.
Orlando Sequera: the scope of our
Orlando Sequera: project of building a house into different areas. One area has to do with the roof right.
Orlando Sequera: Another area will be
Orlando Sequera: structure, internal structure, external structure, another area, maybe foundation.
Orlando Sequera: Another area may be landscaping.
Orlando Sequera: for example, so multiple areas. So we're dividing that's code
Orlando Sequera: into areas. And then under that we can start dividing those areas into smaller chunks.
Orlando Sequera: So we can have
Orlando Sequera: a under
Orlando Sequera: a structure. For example, we have internal structure external structure, and then we can decompose that. And that's where we start seeing the plumbing, that's when we start seeing a
Orlando Sequera: under the foundation, we start seeing we might add the floors under that. And what needs to happen internally? By the way, i'm not a construction project manager, but
Orlando Sequera: just it. It's a very easy way to visualize that breakdown.
Orlando Sequera: and ultimately that decomposition of those different areas of the scope we're going to get to the lowest
Orlando Sequera: to the lowest component, which is what we call the war package.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: I work package. Let's assume that we're decomposing the area of
Orlando Sequera: a external structures, and we have in external walls, and we decompose that. That's that's where we have. We're going to have there.
Orlando Sequera: under that. We're gonna have one component. That is a windows, and another component that is, or external windows and external doors. Right?
Orlando Sequera: So that's another component. But
Orlando Sequera: can we decompose that a little bit more that it will be an example. Not really. That will be an example of a word. Package that window, that door, that external window, and external door. So under
Orlando Sequera: those board packages.
Orlando Sequera: What we are going to have is
Orlando Sequera: actions that we have to complete in order to produce those war packages. That is the smallest
Orlando Sequera: level of the word breakdown structure.
Orlando Sequera: And by the way, decomposing those 4 packages into actions or activities. That's how we create the list of activities that we need to complete
Orlando Sequera: in order to
Orlando Sequera: complete our project, because we're gonna roll that up
Orlando Sequera: from that lowest level
Orlando Sequera: to the top. And when you roll all that up. That's how you are going to be able to understand the list of activities that you have to complete in order to deliver your
Orlando Sequera: entire project. For example for the window we have. What do we have under that word package? Well, we have
Orlando Sequera: to measure the window. We have to either purchase the window or install the window, and then we have to test the window. We deliver the window. Notice a couple of things when it comes to board packages it's usually. Now it's window door
Orlando Sequera: frame. Those are board packages. That's how we express word packages.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: the actions under
Orlando Sequera: those were packages. Those are project activities.
Orlando Sequera: Measure the window, install the window, purchase the window, test the window. Those are the project activities. Okay, that's where the product activities come from.
Orlando Sequera: They don't come out of thin air. They come from this decomposition.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: A few aspects that we have to take into account
Orlando Sequera: have to follow the 100% rule. Everything has to be taken into account when it comes to the scope, and we want to use a hierarchical approach
Orlando Sequera: to divide and conquer that scope. That's the beauty of the war breakdown structure in construction this is widely used. You might be wondering what about planning packages? What do we have planning packages? In some cases
Orlando Sequera: we might, due to our expert knowledge expert judgement that we get from the team. We might have some cases in which we need to
Orlando Sequera: plan for some work that we know that it's gonna be coming so we can create it's a placeholder. A planning package is a placeholder. So you can definitely use that into
Orlando Sequera: a your
Orlando Sequera: when you're building the war practice structure. But this is a graphic representation of your entire scope. You divide and conquer into smaller chunks
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: to the lowest level, which is the word package. And then you roll that up under the war package. You have the list of activities that you have to complete those actions that you have to complete in your project, and you roll that up, and that's how you understand all the activities that you have to complete in order to deliver your project.
Orlando Sequera: Hey? That's how it works. If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: decomposition is the key aspect when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: creating the war, break the instruction that's the technique that we use is divide and conquer, divide, and subdivide into smaller, more manageable parts. So we they, instead of having that big boulder, we have smaller rocks that we can then work on, and then address
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna help you to identify the tasks or they work that needs to be done those actions it's going to help you to structure and organize this wbs or breakdown structure, and
Orlando Sequera: in a more efficient way.
Orlando Sequera: You can decompose high levels, code components into low level scope components. You can start assigning a
Orlando Sequera: unique identification code. You, if you have ever used a software like Microsoft Project. You're gonna start seeing some numbers. 1 point, 1 point, 1 1 point, 1 point, 2. You can aside specific number control account numbers, so you can then keep track of the different
Orlando Sequera: aspects of your scope
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: This is also going to help you to review the the composition of those word packages to make sure that they are aligned with project requirements. You can have to validate this against your project requirements 150.
Orlando Sequera: That is really important. But
Orlando Sequera: since this is a large imagine, if you have you're working even in in the project of building a one-story house. This can be very a. It can be very large. It can be very convoluted. You might have multiple areas that you have to address is a lot of information
Orlando Sequera: for someone that is not familiar with the project. If you just show them that wbs, it's never really going to make more more much sense. What do you mean by 1 point, 1 point, 1, 1, 1 point, 1 point, 2 a roof. A. Wh. How is this going to help me? So for that reason. Whenever you create a word breakdown structure, you also need to create something that is called the word Browser Structure Dictionary.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: a document that is gonna come with your Wbs. That is going to explain what those numbers mean. The 1 point, 1 1, 1 point, 1 point, 2. It's gonna include that. It's going to include the description of the work.
Orlando Sequera: It's also going to include the assumptions and limitations. The responsible organization scheduled milestones going to be contained here. All the associated schedule activities cost estimations whenever they become available.
Orlando Sequera: while it requirements technical reference and a an agreement information. So you always gonna have those a that document coming
Orlando Sequera: together with your Wbs because it's impossible to put everything together in one document. So you have the Wbs. The breakdown of the scope
Orlando Sequera: with the corresponding Wbs Dictionary, plus your scope statement. And those are the 3 elements that form your project scope. Okay, that are part of your scope, baseline.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: that takes us to the approved version of the scope. It is, as I mentioned before, your scope. Baseline is
Orlando Sequera: the approved version of the sc of statement. Element number one
Orlando Sequera: element, number 2, the Wbs with the corresponding Wbs Dictionary or Element number 3. Those are the 3 elements that form the scope baseline. They can only be change
Orlando Sequera: following a change control process.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And that is the approved version of your scope. And here you have your scope Statement. Your Wbs: Your word packages. Of course that's part of the Wbs. You might have planning packages that are part of the Wbs and the corresponding dictionary. This is only going to change
Orlando Sequera: through change control process.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Important
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: You also have to take into account. Once you complete your project, you also have to take into account
Orlando Sequera: transition. That's also part of this couple of your work. You may have transition, if requirement. You're going to be doing a hand over. When your project is.
Orlando Sequera: it is deployed to production, only becomes life right when you deliver the house is given. You give the case to to the customer. The house is completed, so there might be some transition requirements we can. We have to take this into account. This
Orlando Sequera: This is not necessarily going to happen always at the end. This might happen a. Throughout the life cycle of the project, and a few questions that you can ask
Orlando Sequera: that we're going to help you to understand that. Is this going to be something new.
Orlando Sequera: or is it an update to the business environment? Are we transitioning
Orlando Sequera: to a live environment do we have to decommission legacy systems it the we perform
Orlando Sequera: training and knowledge transfer accordingly. Right? So asked a few questions, Don't. In some cases this is applicable. In some cases it's not going to be applicable.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: how do we do scope planning in adaptive environment? Right? If we're following an agile approach. So now we're switching from
Orlando Sequera: addictive to adaptive. How do we do that
Orlando Sequera: we use? As we said before.
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna be using an incremental and iterative development and user stories. That's
Orlando Sequera: another. That's an alternative to the way we look at requirements. In predictive, we have a plethora of types of requirements. We have multiple types of requirements
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: adaptive environments. We only have one type of requirement that is presented in the form of a user story.
Orlando Sequera: They are
Orlando Sequera: a short description toll from the perspective of the customer about the functionality. That's the only type of requirement that we are going to. That that we're going to be paying attention to
Orlando Sequera: is in that regard. It's very different from predictive. We look at user. Stories. That's how we write requirements in agile and
Orlando Sequera: though producing and building
Orlando Sequera: those user stories. That's how we
Orlando Sequera: That's how we do it in agile
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to planning. And remember that in adaptive projects we're following this approach because
Orlando Sequera: we knew
Orlando Sequera: before we start the project that the scope was going to be changing. The scope is not fixed.
Orlando Sequera: This scope is going to be changing, so we need an approach. We need an approach that was flexible in that regard.
Orlando Sequera: We need our projects for someone in that regard. That's why we know, going in that the scope is going to be changing, and therefore
Orlando Sequera: we need a flexible approach. But we still need to plan for our scope right? We is not there. There. There has to be some a. We have to be strategic about the way we produce the functionality in our project. So we do some planning we do planning
Orlando Sequera: at the iteration level at the spring level we decide with the team
Orlando Sequera: and the owner. What are the features? What are the user stories that are going to be built in a particular iteration.
Orlando Sequera: and the team makes a commitment. That's what happens in iteration in the iteration planning.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to estimate the level of effort, and they're going themselves to determine the tasks that are need
Orlando Sequera: that they need to complete in order to produce those user stories or requirements, and they ask questions and they start. They work in the iteration.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: a release is usually a combination of multiple iterations.
Orlando Sequera: and what organizations do is they try to combine similar functionality? For example, they They want to make sure that security is addressed for
Orlando Sequera: this application, then they can combine a release. Okay, we have 6 or 7 iterations that are in which the team is working. On developing security related features. Then we're. Let's combine that into our release, and that's how. And we can
Orlando Sequera: we're going to release that in in 3 months, for example, is just an example. Then everything that gets all those
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: user stories that were
Orlando Sequera: developed by the team that were produced by the team are going to be released together because they are related to security. So that's what we do at the release planning level. We try to group strategic similar functionality. So it gets released at the same time.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: they backlogs. We keep talking about the backlogs. The proto backlog is the equivalent of the war breakdown structure.
Orlando Sequera: In predictive
Orlando Sequera: the pro backlog is the equivalent to the word breakdown structure in predictive
Orlando Sequera: it is a container.
Orlando Sequera: It is a container that. And what do we have inside of that container? We have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: We have multiple elements, and those elements are the user stories their requirements.
Orlando Sequera: That's what the team has to develop. If we're following an added approach.
Orlando Sequera: the product owner is that liaison between the business and the agile team that is in charge of the protocol? It's the individual that is going to create the per backlog. Why is that? Because they are very familiar with the scope they're going to add
Orlando Sequera: user stories. They're gonna work in in collaboration with the team and other stakeholders. They're going to provide clarification to the team. And more importantly, they're going to prioritize the product backlog to make sure that the user stories or features that at the most value are always at the top. That's what we mean by prioritization. And this is done based on value.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: the programmer and the team are going to collaborate to move
Orlando Sequera: work items to the iteration or spring backlog. We have another backlog that is smaller. It's what we call the iteration backlog. This is just for a particular iteration. It's a smaller container compared to the pro backlog. All the user stories for that need to be developed for the project.
Orlando Sequera: Iteration backlogs more container just for those
Orlando Sequera: 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks. that the team is going to be working on developing that function of what happens in iteration of spring planning is that the team is gonna take some user stories from the big container or for backlog, and they're gonna put it in the small
Orlando Sequera: container or iteration backlog, or spring backlog, and that's what they're going to build in that particular iteration or sprint.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so those are the 2 types of backlog. Remember, Big Backlog.
Orlando Sequera: that is the prot backlog small backlog. That is the iteration or spring backlog. They.
Orlando Sequera: the product backlog is the equivalent to the war breakdown structure in predictive. That's how we manage this scope. In our
Orlando Sequera: add your project.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: additionally, we also have.
Orlando Sequera: We have user stories. We have story maps. We can group those user stories in a way that they can help us to be strategic and to manage the scope and start a combining those user stories
Orlando Sequera: with similarities and be strategic about the way that these are released to our customers. So a a story map is one way to organize this user stories. Remember user stories. I want you to associate that with requirements in agile. Okay, so we can group a start training functional groups
Orlando Sequera: that can help us in building this per roadmap, and they are helpful
Orlando Sequera: in. This is one way using the story map technique. And this is one way to understand this cover and prioritize the product and our way moving forward. This is one technique.
Orlando Sequera: We can also.
Orlando Sequera: in many cases
Orlando Sequera: combine multiple user stories.
Orlando Sequera: A. I
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: when we have to deliver
Orlando Sequera: complex functionality. The same principle that we use in predictive of dividing and conquering. That's also applicable Here we're going to have some functionality, some some requirements, some features that we have to build with the radial team that are complex.
Orlando Sequera: that I have a high level of complexity. For example, that monthly sales report
Orlando Sequera: to build a monthly sales report for the accounting software. That
Orlando Sequera: is a complex piece of functionality. The recommendation is to break that down into smaller chunks
Orlando Sequera: into smaller user stories. And because that combination of multiple user stories
Orlando Sequera: are going to produce that monthly sales report and those multiple user stories
Orlando Sequera: are an example of what we call in
Orlando Sequera: in agile, we call
Orlando Sequera: epic and epic.
Orlando Sequera: That is a major deliverable. That monthly sales report can be considered a major deliverable I a level of complexity, but dividing and conquering list.
Orlando Sequera: use the same approach that we use in predictive. Divide that into smaller chunks. So the team has a better chance to be successful in delivering that functionality. You might be wondering Why is that? Well, because that report chances are that it's sitting on the report. It's going to be a fed by other reports.
Orlando Sequera: The report for that, Accounting software so it's complex. The team. If you leave it. If it's only one big chunk, it's it's gonna be very complex. You should divide and conquer. That's a major recommendation a into smaller user stories. So then you group them together.
Orlando Sequera: That's going to be an epic, and that's going to help your team
Orlando Sequera: to increase their chances of being successful. So a combination, a collection of multiple use of stories that we call an epic.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: let's see.
Orlando Sequera: As we have said, the product backlog, right? It keeps
Orlando Sequera: it's a it's a running list. It's. A it's a to-do list that's what it is to do list of what of user stories
Orlando Sequera: some user stories might disappear. So i'm use this new user story might be at it. It's always changing. It's always changing, but it needs to be prioritized at all times. It needs to be prioritized by the
Orlando Sequera: product owner.
Orlando Sequera: Here is where the scrum master is going to help
Orlando Sequera: the product owner. They, the the from master, serves not only their team members. They also serve
Orlando Sequera: the product owner, helping them. Okay, not because that individual was designated as a per owner. They know exactly what they need to do. They are familiar with the scope, but they might not be necessarily familiar with adjunct practices or scrum practices.
Orlando Sequera: They need help that help is going to come from the scrum master.
Orlando Sequera: And this is key, because if the backlog is not prioritized, meaning that the user stories that at the most value are at the top.
Orlando Sequera: Then we're going to be in trouble. So this is something that needs to be done. It's a continual process
Orlando Sequera: that that is done by the product owner prior to iteration planning. So, before we plan our iteration, our per backlog has to be prioritized.
Orlando Sequera: You might have some additional refinement that is done during the spring and iteration with the team. This is going to help you to reorganize and we prioritize the work
Orlando Sequera: to in order to complete higher priority
Orlando Sequera: items or user stories that deliver value first
Orlando Sequera: to our customer.
Orlando Sequera: and the recommendation is to split epics complex functionally into smaller user stories.
Orlando Sequera: All right
Orlando Sequera: if we are going to
a
Orlando Sequera: I want to ask you a question.
Orlando Sequera: The chat is now open.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: What are the 2 stakeholders?
Orlando Sequera: This is a small quiz what 2 stakeholders need to be a part of the proscope planning what? Which 2 soldiers, which 2 stakeholders performed the proscope planning
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: all right. I'm going to post the chat right now.
Orlando Sequera: Chat has been passed. I see your answers.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: these are
Orlando Sequera: the actual right answer is a, and the
Orlando Sequera: and Fan is the project manager, and then working with the team. So you as the Pm. You have to work with the team.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A the next one, and then was to give the executive team an overview
Orlando Sequera: of the work ahead in the next strategy meeting, which artifacts should he show them? They want to give an overview of the work ahead of the next strategy meeting, which artifacts, should he show them? Should it be the per, the scope management plan, the pro roadmap scope statement, or the Wbs. They want to give it
Orlando Sequera: the executive team, an overview of the work ahead
Orlando Sequera: at the next strategy.
Orlando Sequera: and here,
Orlando Sequera: big 2.
Orlando Sequera: The chat is now
Orlando Sequera: open.
Orlando Sequera: It's on past
Orlando Sequera: to pick 2.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, i'm looking at your answers
Orlando Sequera: and the correct answer that we have here is
Orlando Sequera: the chat. Now
Orlando Sequera: the correct answer is.
Orlando Sequera: they want to show their roadmap, and they also want to show this of statement.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and this is what we have cover
Orlando Sequera: so far.
Orlando Sequera: We went over
Orlando Sequera: executing the project with the urgency needed
Orlando Sequera: to deliver business value.
Orlando Sequera: We started talking about plan and managing scope, following a predictive approach, and following an adaptive approach.
Orlando Sequera: we talked about prioritizing requirements, regardless of the approach, and then the breakdown of this scope. If we're following a predictive approach. We do the breakdown of the scope, using the word breakdown structure.
Orlando Sequera: That's how we can break down the entire scope of the project into smaller chunks.
Orlando Sequera: Or if we're following a pretty, an adaptive approach or agile approach, we represent the scope using a product backlog that contains
Orlando Sequera: the requirements that we have to deliver. But we call those requirements user stories. So me and and remember also what we said
Orlando Sequera: in predictive, we have a plethora of of requirements.
Orlando Sequera: It's not just basis requirements. We've got functional requirements. We have transition requirements. We have technical requirements, multiple types of requirements, right
Orlando Sequera: agile. We only have
Orlando Sequera: one type of requirement, which is the perspective of the customer. I only care about the perspective of the customer, and a user story is a sure description that is told. A short description of what of the functionality that
Orlando Sequera: the customer wants to see in the product service of result
Orlando Sequera: to from their perspective, and he has 3 elements that we mentioned yesterday.
Orlando Sequera: First element is the role or the user
Orlando Sequera: as a user as an administrator, as a
Orlando Sequera: etc. Then the actual functionality
Orlando Sequera: I want to be able to
Orlando Sequera: generate a monthly sales report, and the last element is the benefit. So those are the 3 elements that a good user story has.
Orlando Sequera: and we also talked about
Orlando Sequera: Well, we cover some aspects of managing a project closure and transitions.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're going to start talking about
Orlando Sequera: the schedule. So we need to have this scope in place. Really. Well, regardless of the approach, we need to have a really good handle of the scope. Everything starts with the scope. If you don't have
Orlando Sequera: a good understanding of the scope.
Orlando Sequera: you're going to be in trouble, because everything else that you build
Orlando Sequera: is going to be around the scope, and the scope itself has its foundation. Which is
Orlando Sequera: your
Orlando Sequera: your requirements. Okay, the foundation of the scope is the requirements we have to. That's why we have multiple techniques to gather them, and you gotta have a solid handle of the scope. Otherwise your project is going to be
Orlando Sequera: in in trouble from the get go. Okay, because everything else is built around the scope scope is king. Scope is king.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to the schedule
Orlando Sequera: to get from a to B.
Orlando Sequera: If If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: the project manager has to make sure as to make sure that
Orlando Sequera: your war package that your work break, and structure is in place. Let's start with that, and that you have been able to decompose the entire scope of the project, and you have your word packages in place.
Orlando Sequera: You know that the window, the floor, the roof, the tile
Orlando Sequera: the doors.
Orlando Sequera: all those different word packages for your house are have been identified; and not only that, that you have been able to decompose those word packages into the actions, into the activities that you have to complete, to deliver those 4 packages.
Orlando Sequera: For example, window. What do we have under that word package? We have to measure the window. We have to
Orlando Sequera: fabricate the window or purchase the window. We have to install the window. We have to test the window, and when all of those activities are completed that's when we can deliver the window, and when that window is completed all those activities are completed. That's when a deliberable has been produced, that window installed, tested, and approved.
Orlando Sequera: That's a deliverable.
Orlando Sequera: And as we complete those deliverables, that's how we complete our project. Okay, that's why this is so important. We need to have all those word packages divided into the required activities.
Orlando Sequera: We need to start then grouping those activities to understand what needs to happen first, when is to happen later. That's what we call dependencies. We need to understand dependencies, because otherwise you're going to be like me. You don't want to be like me. You're going to start building the house, probably starting with a roof.
Orlando Sequera: and maybe that's possible. Maybe not. But I would think that we want to start with the building. The foundation of the house, and then build everything everything else after that, right? So we need to understand what needs to happen, for first we need to happens later.
Orlando Sequera: And then we need to start understanding the duration
Orlando Sequera: of those activities
Orlando Sequera: and also the resources of those activities, and eventually the cost associated with those activities. We need to understand also something that is called the critical path. We're going to talk about that. That is a we need to identify. What are those activities that cannot be delayed in our project.
Orlando Sequera: We also need to look at the resources. So we are smart and efficient in the way we're allocating resources, and
Orlando Sequera: we also need to make sure that our schedule, if in the event of
Orlando Sequera: compressed, is compressed to meet any.
Orlando Sequera: So that's how it works in a predictive approach. In another approach we can use. We're going to use a time box.
Orlando Sequera: cadence.
Orlando Sequera: sprint or iterations.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to use a release timeframe. We're going to be releasing
Orlando Sequera: chunks of functionality, multiple iterations combined. At the same time, we're going to release that we're going to plan our work in one iteration at a time.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to prioritize and determine a dig and estimate and decompose the level of effort associated with the user stories, with the requirements, and that's going to be breaking down into tasks, and that's what's going to determine the iteration velocity.
Orlando Sequera: Talk about that later. But that is up to the team the team itself as a self-organized unit. They are the ones that estimate the effort. They are the ones that break down the user stories or requirements into tasks.
Orlando Sequera: and then they, we work with the product owner to refine the backlog after each iteration, and then we start planning the next one because it's we do it multiple times. That's what we call it iterations, right?
Orlando Sequera: We also have
Orlando Sequera: our
Orlando Sequera: schedule management plan.
Orlando Sequera: This is going to change, depending on the approach whether we're going agile or whether we go in predictive.
Orlando Sequera: And it's going to
Orlando Sequera: describe how these activities are going to be defined
Orlando Sequera: and progressively elaborated because they can change us More information becomes available. Everything is subject to change here.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to help us to identify what is the scheduling method and the scheduling tool that we're gonna use
Orlando Sequera: the schedule format.
Orlando Sequera: the criteria that is going to help us to control the schedule. These can be tailored in any type of project that rules of engagement that we're going to follow for the schedule. That's what we have in the schedule management plan, and also how we're going to maintain this schedule.
Orlando Sequera: We also have
Orlando Sequera: a hour
Orlando Sequera: components. What are the components of the schedule management plan?
Orlando Sequera: The methodology that we're going to use to develop our schedule
Orlando Sequera: and how we go. That includes planning status updates and progress through an execution. The rules that we're going to follow for that. How accurate is going to be when it comes to estimation. If so, we don't have to. So, for example, this goes back to duration. Right a are we?
Orlando Sequera: Are we going to be using.
Orlando Sequera: And, by the way, the next, the next point units of measure. Are we talking about hours? Are we talking about days?
Orlando Sequera: And the level of accuracy is
Orlando Sequera: what is the lowest level of estimation that we're going to use
Orlando Sequera: typically in most of my projects. I I don't go anything that is below 4 h.
Orlando Sequera: I that's that's I don't go any lower than 4 h. That's half a day, so I wouldn't. In some cases you might be asked to.
Orlando Sequera: They increase the level of the to be more specific. But to me that's usually my lowest. I don't go, but that is defining the accuracy. So it might be different in some of in some of your organization. So in the guide, the main guideline is going to be the Pmo.
Orlando Sequera: what are the organizational procedure links? They? There are going to be links between the activities and the Wbs because they come from the Wbs. So your estimates and schedule, these all these has to be integrated. What are they? Control thresholds when we start
Orlando Sequera: looking at the performance? How well are we performing, then? When do we have to take action? That's going to be defined by the control threshold, right? And
Orlando Sequera: what are the rules of performance measurement? When we compare what is happening. We call that actuals against what we plan for. We use earn value management.
Orlando Sequera: And how frequently are we going to report on status that's defined here in the schedule management plan, and then how we going to a document this processes. That's also part of the schedule management plan. Okay, that is.
Orlando Sequera: that is crucial. That is important
Orlando Sequera: work
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning. Where do we start? We start working on developing our schedule and build our schedule.
Orlando Sequera: The same thing that we did with scope, we can compare with previous projects
Orlando Sequera: and historical information we can compare with the previous project
Orlando Sequera: we're building a one-story house.
Orlando Sequera: Maybe in the past we build a one-story house.
Orlando Sequera: This compared to a previous project. So this took 6 months. It took us 6 months to complete to build a one Story House. So that's using benchmarking, and it's what is just a starting point. It's just a starting point. Okay, you shouldn't go.
Orlando Sequera: You You should keep that into account. It's just a starting point. And but then you have to
Orlando Sequera: work. And using these processes to really build a solid schedule for your project
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to hybrid schedules
Orlando Sequera: it is important to be able to meet customer change and demands. Organizations need
Orlando Sequera: a scheduling solutions that can tailor to feed the product, development, or project needs. So this is when you have to tailor your plans
Orlando Sequera: consistently in with with management oversight to a and flexible scheduling of work.
Orlando Sequera: and this is better when a better program deliver quality with incremental and short term value, delivery and change are incomparable on intervals. So this is where a hybrid schedule comes into play, or when you can divide your pro delivery into subsets, according to a plan
Orlando Sequera: following a a milestone or following a cadence
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: predictive schedule planning.
Orlando Sequera: This is how it gets done. The project manager is going to break down the work packages working with the team into the requirement activities into the required activities. What we need to do in order to deliver that word package
Orlando Sequera: ideally, we should include the team members, the people doing the work. They're the most familiar with the word that needs to be done. We also have to determine what needs to happen first when it happens later that's what we call dependencies and precedence relationships.
Orlando Sequera: Some of these activities need to be performed first. Some of these activities need to be performed later. Some of them can be done in parallel.
Orlando Sequera: We need to establish that. Then we to estimate the duration of these activities, how many hours based whatever we Whatever we decide with the schedule management plan, we're gonna let's assume that we're going to use ours. We need to start estimating that duration. And again, the recommendation, even in predictive, is to have is to involve, at the very least to involve the people doing the work
Orlando Sequera: with the estimation process, then we need to determine. What are those activities out of the entire list of activities that we have? Where are those activities that cannot be delayed? Those activities are
Orlando Sequera: what we call the critical path, because basically if any of those activities gets delayed.
Orlando Sequera: your entire
Orlando Sequera: project is going to be delayed. We need to identify those activities that have
Orlando Sequera: that that cannot be delayed at all. We're going to talk about that.
Orlando Sequera: And again, this is going to help us with
Orlando Sequera: solving resource over allocation
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to breaking down the war packages into activities, As I mentioned before, where packages are expressed as nouns window. That's a word package door. That's a word package roof. That's a that's a word package. That's how we
Orlando Sequera: We used nouns
Orlando Sequera: to express more packages. Activities
Orlando Sequera: are verbs. They denote action
Orlando Sequera: what we have under a word package. Let's assume that we're talking about the word Package a window, then the activity is going to be.
Orlando Sequera: Measure the window. That's a verb right measure.
Orlando Sequera: Then install the window.
Orlando Sequera: test
Orlando Sequera: the window.
Orlando Sequera: deliver the window. All those are verbs. They denote action
Orlando Sequera: that those are the activities. Okay. So war packages, nouns, activities are verbs. We need to be able to create
Orlando Sequera: an activity list
Orlando Sequera: to develop the project schedule and where does it come from it comes from the Wbs. If you don't have your Ws in place.
Orlando Sequera: then you're gonna be in trouble. Okay, you're gonna be in trouble. That's why we need to spend and take the time to work on our requirements, and then in our scope to get it right. Otherwise we're going to be in trouble.
Orlando Sequera: then the next step is going to be
Orlando Sequera: to go over the dependencies. Once we have been able to identify the list of activities.
Orlando Sequera: we need to start working on dependencies, we need to start grouping them logically.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases we might have mandatory dependencies. These are contractually required, legally required.
Orlando Sequera: Their mandatory dependencies.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases they might be based on best practices. That's what we call discretionary.
Orlando Sequera: So about best practices.
Orlando Sequera: Then you might have some external
Orlando Sequera: dependencies.
Orlando Sequera: You might have any. You might have no control or limited control, or you might have some internal dependencies. But you need to start the dependencies between all of those activities. Okay, need to understand that. And then the precedence.
Orlando Sequera: What needs to happen first and what needs to happen later
Orlando Sequera: need to understand a: we we need to start grouping those activities, so we can start a understanding what activity needs to be complete, the first and more activities to be comp later time. And what can be done in prior in parallel, because otherwise you're going to be like me. You rest are probably building the hospital to start with a roof. Let's work our way down right to start with the roof and then work our way down. Is that going to be the most efficient way? Possibly not. But we need to understand that
Orlando Sequera: working with our
Orlando Sequera: experts with your so with our subject matter experts to avoid just that
Orlando Sequera: each activity when it comes to precedence, each activity is going to have
Orlando Sequera: a 2 open points start and finish that we see here
Orlando Sequera: the present relationships they take into account
Orlando Sequera: appropriate logic when we're connecting this points right? That's what we use. We connect through the arrows and and then they the the activity that needs to be completed. First. That's what we call the predecessor, the driver, and then the bacteria needs to be completed later.
Orlando Sequera: That is what we call the successor, and this is a little, a little bit of an example we need to be able to confirm. That's a that's a verb confirmed key, stakeholder and customer attendance, and then the successories erect Same signage with customer branding that happens later.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: in most situations and predecessors occur earlier the in time, then, successors and precedence relationships are going to always be assigned
Orlando Sequera: and to activities based on the dependencies of each activity. This is where your experts are going to help. You
Orlando Sequera: are going to help establish this precedence relationship. What needs to happen first? One need to happens later. Some of you can. The stakeholders help, Yes, but mainly the people doing the work. These are the activities that come every
Orlando Sequera: need to be completed by the team. So the team and the experts there's the one. They're the ones that are mainly working on this precedence relationship.
Orlando Sequera: And when it comes to precedence relationships we have multiple types.
Orlando Sequera: Not only have one type.
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: multiple types. We have what we call finished to start
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: in when it comes to finish. To start. This is where
Orlando Sequera: we have to complete the predecessor activity. In this case Activity a has to be completed before activity e
Orlando Sequera: can start.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by a
Orlando Sequera: finish to start. For example.
Orlando Sequera: obtain the occupancy permit from oasis down building department before the team
Orlando Sequera: before the team can identify the finished basis
Orlando Sequera: for the tour.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So the company can only take visitors
Orlando Sequera: 2 spaces that are certified.
Orlando Sequera: safe for occupancy, so they need to get the permit before they can
Orlando Sequera: take people to spaces in
Orlando Sequera: in that location. All right, then the next type of
Orlando Sequera: dependent precedence relationship that we have is
Orlando Sequera: what we called
Orlando Sequera: finished to finish. And here.
Orlando Sequera: as successor, activity cannot finish until the predecessor has finished. In this case
Orlando Sequera: our complete landscaping and decoration cannot finish before they identify finished space
Orlando Sequera: before we finish identifying the spaces for the tour.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So we have to complete
Orlando Sequera: the landscaping and decoration has to be finished before we're able to identify the finished basis for the tour.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by that. That's an example of finish to finish.
Orlando Sequera: And then we have a another type of presence that is called start to finish.
Orlando Sequera: And here we mean that a successor activity cannot start
Orlando Sequera: until a predecessor has started.
Orlando Sequera: So activity D completely. Landscaping and decoration in this case
Orlando Sequera: cannot be
Orlando Sequera: a cannot start until the processor has started. So
Orlando Sequera: in this case the actual
Orlando Sequera: start to finish
Orlando Sequera: the ground escaping team. They need to start
Orlando Sequera: landscaping and decorating at any time.
Orlando Sequera: But until the science and erected, then the whole side is complete. They cannot finish their work. So that's what we mean by start to finish.
Orlando Sequera: By the way, you might be wondering. This is a lot of dependencies. We have one more. We have actually 2 more, this is a lot of presence. How do we do this in our project.
Orlando Sequera: How can we practice? This is a lot of information to keep this Manually we use software for this. This is something that you can determine and use in
Orlando Sequera: Microsoft Project, for example, or Primavera. Those are the 2 tools that i'm the most familiar with you can select. You can
Orlando Sequera: not select.
Orlando Sequera: incorporate this precedence relationship. The next one finished to start.
Orlando Sequera: That's another one and finish to start, we have
Orlando Sequera: a basically an activity and not a in finished to start an activity cannot finish until
Orlando Sequera: activity. The processor
Orlando Sequera: have to finish before you can start working on your a successor.
Orlando Sequera: and then we have start to start, which i'm gonna make a confession here. I have never used that in one of my in one of my
Orlando Sequera: project schedules Never use that because it's basically that both have to start. it's. One example is typically that you're in this case confirm the key stakeholder and customer Attendance has to start before
Orlando Sequera: erect segment with customer branding can start.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: something that I have never used before in my
Orlando Sequera: for your schedules. It is an option. You're gonna see it in Microsoft Project it. But think of another good example. I would say. That will make it clear is a Imagine the night shift of
Orlando Sequera: nurses at a hospital.
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: they not they! They first shift.
Orlando Sequera: cannot leave until the second shift. This has to be a nurse covering that shift, so that will be an example of start to start all right. So this precedence relationships are going to help us to add some
Orlando Sequera: to add some logic to our schedule. We need to understand what needs to happen first. What needs to happen in later. In one thing that is also going to help us to add even more realism to your precedence.
Orlando Sequera: relationships to this logic is, we can add lags.
Orlando Sequera: and we can also add.
Orlando Sequera: leads. Some activities can start
Orlando Sequera: before that will be a lead time before we can start sometime before
Orlando Sequera: A, not everything has to be done sequential, right? As we saw. We have multiple types of press and relationships.
Orlando Sequera: and we can also add a lack.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so
Orlando Sequera: this a particular example. Here we can. We went to include a a time in which the agency
Orlando Sequera: issuing the occupancy permit is is very slow, which happens in most cases, so they begin efforts to confirm the receipt of occupancy permit before 2 weeks before the team identifies the finish spaces for the tour. That's an example of a lead. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what I like in this example the team starts directing stakeholder specific signage for the tour. 2 weeks after the key stakeholder and customer attendance is confirmed
Orlando Sequera: that because creating a specialty signage is, it takes time, and it's expensive. So the thing was to make sure the designers have enough time to create something that is going to please the customers, For
Orlando Sequera: this new building.
Orlando Sequera: So we use leads.
Orlando Sequera: We use flags to add more realism to your schedule. All right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So
Orlando Sequera: we have.
Orlando Sequera: We have covered the content for our first
Orlando Sequera: for first session. But now i'm going to work on addressing some questions until
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: 14 min, and I'm going to address
Orlando Sequera: your questions. Please vote, please review the questions and vote, and that's going to help me to start addressing with the ones
Orlando Sequera: A. With the questions. I need to have them more vote. I want to start by that.
Orlando Sequera: The first one can a project manager make corrections or change
Orlando Sequera: business.
Orlando Sequera: I'm: sorry.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, there's one ticket. I'm gonna start with a different one that has more votes for scheduled planning specifically critical path activities. How did you handle delays that are outside of your control, and we're unpredictable.
Orlando Sequera: When answer is.
Orlando Sequera: for example, massive supply chain delays due to the pandemic. That is an enterprise environmental factor.
Orlando Sequera: And one way is we're gonna
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be covering
Orlando Sequera: from the schedule perspective. We have 2 tools that can help you with that
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: From the scheduled perspective. You can use scheduled compression.
Orlando Sequera: or you can
Orlando Sequera: follow another technique that is going to help you
Orlando Sequera: to do some activities that normally you will do is sequentially. Now you're gonna do it in parallel. So there are tools and techniques that can help you to address those challenges. We're gonna go over that. when we come back from break. Okay, so yes, there are tools.
Orlando Sequera: And by the way, the exam is about that, what do we do if we're facing, that might very well be an example.
Orlando Sequera: So, is somewhat somehow of a type of a question. What did you do if you're experiencing a delay. What? What? What do you have to do? So it's using these tools and techniques. We're going to call schedule compression.
Orlando Sequera: And doing things in parallel
Orlando Sequera: some materials in parallel. That's one way that you can do fast tracking. That is called schedule compression and fast tracking. Those are 2 techniques that you can use to handle those delays. We're going to talk about that when we come back from Brick. So
Orlando Sequera: schedule confession of fast tracking. Another question. Can a project manager make corrections or change to to a business requirement
Orlando Sequera: in in case of an unprecedented, a major change in a milestone. The answer is, Yes, but be careful with this, do you? When you're If you're changing a requirement, make sure that you get buying from the appropriate parties, and by that I mean whomever was designed with that, whoever whomever has
Orlando Sequera: the level of a 30, you shouldn't be changing requirements on your on the fly, on your own, even if you're the Pm. Do you get a get authorization for that? Okay. And normally you're not going to have enough of a 30 to do it on your own. So I will recommend you to review with the authorized parties.
Orlando Sequera: with the sponsor, and in your stakeholders that need to sign off before a change is a made, and in this case this might the if you're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: this will be a case in which you will have to create a change, request and go through the change. Control process
Orlando Sequera: is an adaptive story. Map, equivalent to a predictive word. Break the structure. No, the equivalent to the war break. The structure is the
Orlando Sequera: broader backlog. The product backlog is the equivalent to the word breakdown structure.
Orlando Sequera: I can do.
Orlando Sequera: Can you lay out the full list of requirements based off of predictive Adj. On hybrid you should. That's part of your job. You have to work with the team, and they find in the full list of requirements.
Orlando Sequera: You need to understand the requirements that you can then understand the scope. So sure. Answer is yes.
Orlando Sequera: Please explain
Orlando Sequera: Once again resonance relationships.
Orlando Sequera: You need to
Orlando Sequera: understand the logical sequence of those activities. Some of them can need to be them first, some of them to be done later. You need to. That's how you build the schedule. Okay, what needs to happen first? Want it to happen later, and some things can be done in parallel. Something. Then you can add, leads, and lack
Orlando Sequera: lax to make it better. Some things can be done ahead of time. Some things need to wait a little bit longer. So that's where you use leads and lacks. So it's connecting those activities.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: it's about connecting
Orlando Sequera: those activities.
Orlando Sequera: And that was answered.
Orlando Sequera: is an adaptive approach really suitable for highly regular industries.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases, Yes.
Orlando Sequera: aerospace is highly regulated, and is that the adaptive approach agile is widely used for development purposes. So
Orlando Sequera: yes.
Orlando Sequera: that's a transition plan need to be created at the beginning towards the end, you should.
Orlando Sequera: Your plans are created at the beginning.
Orlando Sequera: They are created at the beginning.
Orlando Sequera: So best practices to create at the beginning. Take that into account and have it ready. Not you. Don't want to build a plane when you're flying the plane or let alone when you're about. In this case, when you're about to land the plane, you don't you. You want to have it in place at the beginning.
Orlando Sequera: The
Okay?
Orlando Sequera: Okay. there's a question To go back to slide 49. Let's go back to slide 49.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: the 2 questions that we were covering
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: The quote, the 2 questions that we were covering
Orlando Sequera: a a couple of things here. You might.
Orlando Sequera: but first of all, do my get
Orlando Sequera: this type of question when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: choosing more than one right answer.
Orlando Sequera: Please pay attention to what they ask you for
Orlando Sequera: choose to choose 3,
Orlando Sequera: pick 2, pick, 3,
Orlando Sequera: they might say like that. So if they asking you to pick to make sure that you select 2 options. If they're asking you to select 3, make sure that you select a 3 options.
Orlando Sequera: Alright, so that's
Orlando Sequera: one thing
Orlando Sequera: which 2 stakeholders perform. The project scope, planning.
Orlando Sequera: That is the question. And they're asking you to select, too.
Orlando Sequera: And the options were
Orlando Sequera: your the project manager, then the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: the project sponsor, and the project team.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: the answer. The answers are a and D. As we see here in the slide. So let's go. I think many of the questions are related to the quiz.
Orlando Sequera: hey? Helen Gray is the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: she's in charge, or or he she's in charge of the product scope, planning right
Orlando Sequera: in the adaptive part of the project. The project team members
Orlando Sequera: are the the local domain experts in planning the scope of the work for each iteration.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so this is about Project scope, planning, planning, planning, planning. Right? So
Orlando Sequera: it is the project manager
Orlando Sequera: and the project team. Remember that even in
Orlando Sequera: adaptive
Orlando Sequera: I'm sorry even in
Orlando Sequera: a in in predictive the project manager has to work with the project team, but when it comes to the work that is gonna be done planning those iterations, deciding what work is going to be done in those iterations, as we have said
Orlando Sequera: in. If we're following an agile approach that is strictly to the team that said that the team is self-organized. They make that decision, so they need to be
Orlando Sequera: They are the ones that perform
Orlando Sequera: the projects called planning is the project manager and the project team.
Orlando Sequera: and the second question
Orlando Sequera: the project manager and Fame
Orlando Sequera: wants to give the executive team an overview of the work ahead of the next strategy meeting.
Orlando Sequera: which artifacts only there was a type of there should have been artifacts that was confusing. So i'm going to give you that a which artifacts should he show them?
Orlando Sequera: So? He wants to give them an overview of what's going to happen, then
Orlando Sequera: those artifacts? Why is not this scope management plan? Because the scope management plan those are the rules that we're going to follow to manage this code. That's not going to allow them to understand what an overview of the work.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: the war breakdown structure is a representation of the scope of the project. The entire scope of the project that's not gonna gonna not gonna give them an overview of the work ahead of the next strategy meeting. So the the per roadmap. Yes, that is
Orlando Sequera: the representation of the work.
Orlando Sequera: how it's gonna be done, how we group functionality, and that's the roadmap that is going to allow them to understand and give them an overview of the work ahead, and also this of statement. So
Orlando Sequera: my recommendation is to, and I see, I think I saw a question about. Well, we're not ready for this type of questions. We're just going through the preparation process. Okay, so we're starting for some of you. This is the first time that you're exposed to this
Orlando Sequera: to this concept, to these techniques. And it really
Orlando Sequera: a it's gonna take some time. So you're not ready for the exam yet, so please be patient. Let's go through the content and practice practice practice for a position, and you are going to be ready for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: I think we have time, for
Orlando Sequera: I would be more questions.
Orlando Sequera: We explain why
Orlando Sequera: they're not specifying the approach. They're not. There's a question in the so in queue in quiz. Q one. If it's a pick one, then it will be the project team, and they will mean a laptive approach. Yes, they need. Read the questions carefully. Thank you for that. Read the questions carefully. Pay attention to to what they're asking you.
Orlando Sequera: telling you specifically here which 2 stakeholders perform the scope, planning
Orlando Sequera: All right, a little bit more questions.
Orlando Sequera: All of this content is part of the exam. Okay. Otherwise we wouldn't be delivering this content. So
Orlando Sequera: all the content that we're covering is part of the Pmp. Exam. It comes straight from Pmi.
Orlando Sequera: Can the Wbs creation in predicted projects be compared with structuring. epic feature user stories. Yeah. We structure epic features of stories
Orlando Sequera: using the Proto backlog. So yes, the answer is yes to that question.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So leading back time is basically that turn over time. You don't get paid for
Orlando Sequera: You're trying to be as efficient as possible.
Orlando Sequera: you can start some things before, so you take so
Orlando Sequera: not everything has to be completed before you start the next activity. That's how you have to look at it. So, in a way to the question
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: but it's about being smarter about
Orlando Sequera: completing your activities.
Orlando Sequera: Another question in the Q. A. You said that user stories only have one requirement. No, I said, that user stories are the way for us to describe. That's how we write requirements in agile
Orlando Sequera: requirements
Orlando Sequera: based on the perspective of the customer
Orlando Sequera: for a job where and how our technical requirements associated with that user story, track and implemented the team is that that's up to the team. The team is gonna work on that. They only need to know the perspective of the customer. But all those technical
Orlando Sequera: decisions are going to be made by the team. The team is going to address that. They only need
Orlando Sequera: the description of the requirement from the customer perspective that gets addressed. But the team is going to do that. That's why you have acts
Orlando Sequera: access to experts. Okay, they are the ones
Orlando Sequera: that we, the side
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: that are going to make those decisions.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Let me see.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Can we please review, slide 36
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna go back to 36,
Orlando Sequera: and we are going. We are ready for our break. So take this question, and then we're going to take an hour. Break
Orlando Sequera: more
Orlando Sequera: alternative analysis. They're going to help us to you. Consider potential options. You you're considering multiple options, and that's take a look at those alternatives and which one is going to be your best option.
Orlando Sequera: All right, so we are ready for our break. We're going to be answering some questions during the break.
Orlando Sequera: We'll come back and continue
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: in an hour, please do not log off.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be
Orlando Sequera: answering some questions during break time.
Orlando Sequera: But please do not log off and stay locked in during the break. We're going to be playing important videos that are that are gonna help you to
Orlando Sequera: a understand some important information. So please stay locked in. Do not log off, Enjoy
Orlando Sequera: your 1 h break, and we are going to be back
Orlando Sequera: in a few minutes. We'll be back in an hour, so
Orlando Sequera: thank you very much, everyone my apologies. We went over a couple of minutes.
Orlando Sequera: so
Orlando Sequera: I enjoy your hour. Break.
Orlando Sequera: Welcome back, everyone. I was going over some of the questions during the break. Hopefully you
Orlando Sequera: enjoyed your
Orlando Sequera: your 1 h break, and we're watching Bart's videos.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: I have.
Orlando Sequera: I would like to address
Orlando Sequera: a couple of topics to make sure that we understand, because it is important
Orlando Sequera: for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is
Orlando Sequera: related to
Orlando Sequera: the precedence relationships. Okay, so let me move over to this slide.
Orlando Sequera: I would like to
Orlando Sequera: explain
Orlando Sequera: one more time and a little bit better.
Orlando Sequera: The different type of precedence of relationships that we have. The first one is
Orlando Sequera: finish to start.
Orlando Sequera: And basically what we're saying here we're finished. To start is that
Orlando Sequera: an activity has to finish
Orlando Sequera: the the
Orlando Sequera: if we need to start the success. The successor in which, in this graphic that we see here is activity, cannot start before the predecessor in this example is a today
Orlando Sequera: and test finish. Okay, that's what we mean to finish. To start. By the way, this is one of the most commonly used type of precedence relationships in your
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When you're building your schedule using a tool like Microsoft Project. I want to give you an example. Besides what we have here, an example that probably can make can help a little bit better installing the operating system on a computer on a laptop.
Orlando Sequera: That is, the successor cannot start until
Orlando Sequera: the hardware has been put together in the laptop. Right? So the hardware has to be has to be put together in the laptop
Orlando Sequera: before we can start installing the operating system, whatever it is. So that's what we mean by finish to start. Then the next one is
Orlando Sequera: that we're going to cover is finished to finish.
Orlando Sequera: This is where the successor cannot finish. In this case the successor's activity. He cannot finish until the predecessor has finished
Orlando Sequera: an example is.
Orlando Sequera: besides, what we see in front of us is a writing a document that is, the predecessor is required to finish before we can finish editing the document right? So we have to finish writing a document before we can finish editing the document.
Orlando Sequera: and then we have start to start.
Orlando Sequera: This is where, as successor in this graphic that we see here start to start a successor is activity. F
Orlando Sequera: cannot start until the predecessor activity. In this case activity c. Has started.
Orlando Sequera: Okay,
Orlando Sequera: for example, from construction
Orlando Sequera: leveling concrete.
Orlando Sequera: That is, the successor. Activity cannot start until we have
Orlando Sequera: started
Orlando Sequera: or in the foundation. That is their predecessor. Okay, that's an example, and the last one is start to finish.
Orlando Sequera: This is where a successor activity cannot finish until a predecessor activity finish. has started
Orlando Sequera: as successor. Activity cannot finish until a predecessor activity has started.
Orlando Sequera: The the example is
Orlando Sequera: an accounts payable system. Cannot
Orlando Sequera: that is the so sensor has to start before the old accounts payable system can be shut down.
Orlando Sequera: That is, the predecessor, or another example was the one that I was using before it with at a hospital with nurses. The shift
Orlando Sequera: then the second shift of nurses had they have to arrive
Orlando Sequera: before
Orlando Sequera: the first shift. Nurses can leave right so they can complete the shift. They they always have to be someone there. So that's an example of start to finish. Alright, so hopefully that helps a little bit more. I wanted to add additional clarification, and the second aspect that I would like to
Orlando Sequera: cover is
Orlando Sequera: in regards to the quiz. A. Let's go back
Orlando Sequera: to the quest. If i'm not mistaken, the quiz is a little bit it's before
Orlando Sequera: I think it's 49
Orlando Sequera: going back to the quiz.
Orlando Sequera: If it's only and I saw this question repeated multiple times in the Q. A. The second question, If it's only one option.
Orlando Sequera: then the correct up, the correct answer is B. The product broke map that's going to provide that overview of the work ahead if it's only one option the correct option. Here, for the second question
Orlando Sequera: Ank Fan wants to give the executive team an overview of the work ahead of the next strategy meeting, Which artifact should he show them and the wasteworded They're asking in this specific case for one option. So for those of you that said, be for a romance that is correct.
Orlando Sequera: So my apologies.
Orlando Sequera: but it's probably a a a title that we have to fix my apologies for that.
Orlando Sequera: But if it's only one option, the correct answer is option. B. But my recommendation for the Pmp. Exam. Always pay attention to how many options are they asking you? They might, they might say, pick 2, or choose to choose 3, pay attention to that. But if it's only one, then it's going to be one in the exam. That's not going to happen. This is not going to happen in the exam.
Orlando Sequera: So, but the correct answer will be. If it's only one
Orlando Sequera: item, then it's going to be the correct answer is the pro rope up. All in this case you get to look for the best answer. Okay, so it's only one. Then the best answer is, the pro.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So we, when
Orlando Sequera: we went over that. That's why
Orlando Sequera: I wanted to. That's what I wanted to clarify.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with
Orlando Sequera: our
Orlando Sequera: topics, please. we're gonna have predetermined a
Orlando Sequera: stopping points in the class to address questions as they come up. But we're going to continue with our
Orlando Sequera: with our content.
Orlando Sequera: Another aspect. I see this. This is
Orlando Sequera: we don't.
Orlando Sequera: Don't? Get cut up in the minutia for the Pmp. Exam. The the exam is about critical thinking. You need to know about this tools, but they're not asking. They're not trying to determine how well you know them. They're gonna ask you scenario based questions.
Orlando Sequera: and it you have to answer, based on the tools that we're covering. But it's about critical thinking. The questions are not about definitions and not about the tools they're going to give in. They're going to be giving you scenarios.
Orlando Sequera: and they're going to be asking you specifically about those scenarios. The questions are going to be, what should you do next?
Orlando Sequera: What do you do? First you get to look for those keywords again. It's about a critical thinking. It's not about how well do you know these tools and techniques. That's not what the Pmp Exam. Is all about it's about how well can you apply these tools and techniques to solve problems. Okay, so Don't get cut up in the minutia, and if you want to do a deeper dive and understand everything there is to know about this, for example.
Orlando Sequera: go
Orlando Sequera: A requirements, collection tools.
Orlando Sequera: review the resources. You have 5,000 pages of resources. Review: the references. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But for the Pmp. Exam it's about general understanding, and I'm going to do my best as much as possible to highlight those areas that you need to know for the exam. But it is about critical thinking.
Orlando Sequera: just knowing a formula by heart or no one, a definition by heart that's not going to caught it. You need to know how to use it. You need to be able. You need to be able to solve problems with a do these tools and technique
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue so, and this goes back to
Orlando Sequera: another question. that I saw a couple of times in the Q. A. It's about durations, and this goes back to leads and lacks leads and lax are a do. We should not at them
Orlando Sequera: to the duration, to the estimation process of the duration, right? They're just gonna help us when we start linking those activities that we were able to determine for a project. We have to
Orlando Sequera: add realism to those and and try to be as efficient as possible. That's where those leads and lacks can help us to build
Orlando Sequera: realism into the schedule. That's what we use it for. But they are not part of the duration. They're not gonna They should not have an impact on determining. How long is it going to take us to a measure. A window or Harle is going to take us to
Orlando Sequera: install a window. Okay, that that we need to understand specifically about that activity, but leads, and Max have no place when it comes to estimating that duration and estimating the direction of an activity is just that
Orlando Sequera: we're taking a look at how long it's going to take us, how much time is going to take us to complete a specific activity. And
Orlando Sequera: also we take a look at. We take a look at the effort that is going to be associated with that. So activity, duration estimates that is the quantitative assessment.
but
Orlando Sequera: 20 of us quantitative because we're using it. We're saying that it's going to take 2 h, 3 h, 4 h, if we're using hours
Orlando Sequera: to do our estimation. But what if we're not sure? Should we estimate using ours, or should we estimate using days? And i'm going to
Orlando Sequera: I'm. I'm going to on past the chat so you can answer. What do you think that we should use what I i'm not sure. I'm working in in a project. What do I have to review to understand. Should I be you estimated in hours, or estimated in days?
Orlando Sequera: No, how, what? What do I have to review?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: Nope. I see all of you are putting hours or days. What? What
Orlando Sequera: artifact, what not a matter of fact, what document is going to help you to understand?
Orlando Sequera: And so far, No, no, no, no, no!
Orlando Sequera: You have to read your schedule management plan. They plan. You have to review in
Orlando Sequera: the schedule management plan schedule management plan is going to tell you that the plan? Yes.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that's why we create the plans
Orlando Sequera: to answer those questions. So we don't have to reinvent the wheel and start a.
Orlando Sequera: What what do we estimate in? Do we use ours to? We use days? No, that's why we create the plans. Another analogy that that I can come up with a to for you to understand the plans.
Orlando Sequera: The different
Orlando Sequera: project plans that we have in our project
Orlando Sequera: is a the rules that we have to follow. Let's assume that we're talking about a sport
Orlando Sequera: to football or soccer.
Orlando Sequera: The rules right? So we got to have rules, otherwise we wouldn't be able to play the game. We need to have rules or rule book in place.
Orlando Sequera: so we can play the game. It's the same with the
Orlando Sequera: the project management plan and the subsidiary plans like in this specific example, the schedule management plan. That's why we create them. So we know it.
Orlando Sequera: Wait a second. It's not gonna be in days. It's gonna be now worse. So you should estimate. When you get to this point, you estimate using hours. Because why? Because that's what we said that we were going to do in When we develop our schedule management plan.
Orlando Sequera: we can build that later we build the plans before, so we so we can then execute based on those plans. Okay, that's what we have them. Therefore, so we estimate the duration of the activities based on in the number of time periods. But what time period are we talking about days or hours? Well.
Orlando Sequera: we review the plan. The plan says Days, or the plan 6 h. That's what you're going to be use. So you take a look into account.
Orlando Sequera: You're going to estimate the duration of your activities.
Orlando Sequera: You don't take into account any leads or lags. Okay, no. The only the duration of the actual activity activity. And then the lapse time is the actual calendar time that is needed for an activities come on like an activities completion.
Orlando Sequera: and then the effort is the number of labor units required to complete a schedule activity that is expressing our days or weeks based on what was said in your
Orlando Sequera: in this case schedule management plan. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: What are some of those estimating techniques? And before that I will like to point out something, you may be. Wonder what is an estimate? I'm surprised that no one has asked that question in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: An estimate is not not nothing but an approximation. An estimate is an approximation based on what
Orlando Sequera: based on
Orlando Sequera: experience based on
Orlando Sequera: parameters.
Orlando Sequera: or we can get a little bit more scientific.
Orlando Sequera: So we have multiple estimating techniques. But at the end of the day. An estimation is an approximation. Please remember that
Orlando Sequera: next, an estimate, an estimate is an approximation. Okay, we have multiple estimating techniques that we can use.
Orlando Sequera: The first one that we see here is
Orlando Sequera: the analogous estimating technique.
Orlando Sequera: This is basically comparing, using historical data, comparing to a similar endeavor a similar project that we have worked in the past.
Orlando Sequera: Quick example. Building the house, building a one-story house
Orlando Sequera: in the past. We built a similar house.
Orlando Sequera: and it took us 6 months. Therefore i'm going to estimate that we're an estimate that this project is going to take 6 months to complete.
Orlando Sequera: or we can be a specific about an activity
Orlando Sequera: installing the windows, for
Orlando Sequera: at one story house it took 3 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: Therefore we're working in a similar house. We're going to estimate that it's going to take us 3 weeks to install the exterior windows, for example.
Orlando Sequera: or you can use that for cost. It's not only for duration. It's also used for cost. It's comparing to something similar that was done in the past.
Orlando Sequera: It's great as a starting point, as you can see. Is
Orlando Sequera: not time consuming at all.
Orlando Sequera: and it's not expensive. We just did it in what a couple of seconds right? And this is used as a starting point. But the problem is, the drawback is that it's not accurate.
Orlando Sequera: is it? It's not really accurate. It's a good as probably some of you that they're working in construction. No, a materials and supplies. The prices are changing on a weekly basis, or in some cases in a on a daily basis. So and they resource. Availability is also another another factor. So.
Orlando Sequera: for they to find construction workers in some cases. So there are many variables, many factors that come into place. So this might be
Orlando Sequera: That that was the case 6 months or a 2 years ago right now is different. So we got to keep that into account. But it's a good starting point
Orlando Sequera: we can use also what we call parametric estimation. This is a little bit more scientific.
Orlando Sequera: and this is where we can start saying
Orlando Sequera: we can start using some parameters. So okay, let's assume that we're trying to estimate the duration of a task. That is, we we're painting one of the we're printing the master bedroom in the in. The one
Orlando Sequera: one story has that we're building.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so we can use some a, some parameters. So if we use each painter is gonna it's gonna take one painter. It will take 3 h to complete the task. Then, if we use 2, maybe we can produce that to an hour and a half
Orlando Sequera: A. So we can. Then we 2 painters. This is going to take us an hour and a half, so we start getting a a little bit more scientific. We're using parameters.
Orlando Sequera: We can also use cost
Orlando Sequera: or duration. So with 2 painters gonna take us an hour and a half, but each payer the hourly rate is $30 an hour, for example. So when we start using
Orlando Sequera: those parameters for cost in those parameters for a duration, that's what we call parametric estimation. By doing that we can determine how long it's going to take, or how much is going to cost a specific activity. They are more accurate than analogous estimating.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: they don't take they they're not a silver bullet they don't. Take into account a like a learning curve. If, for example.
Orlando Sequera: going back to the example of pain in the room.
Orlando Sequera: what happens if we have a
Orlando Sequera: painters that are very experienced.
Orlando Sequera: But then we have someone that is that that just started as a painter. So doesn't take those variables into account, so it's not always
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: the uniform when it comes to results. So the recommendation is to use more than just that, a estimating technique.
Orlando Sequera: Then we have another estimating technique.
Orlando Sequera: and we're gonna look at it in a little in a little more detail in the next slide. It's what we call the 3 Point estimating technique. And here we take into account 3 scenarios. We're trying to come up with an approximate range, and the 3 scenarios are best case scenario.
Orlando Sequera: We have worst case scenario, and but in the middle we have the most likely scenario, and we use this whenever historical data is insufficient or very subjective.
Orlando Sequera: and this can help us to include the level of accuracy. But
Orlando Sequera: it has some drawbacks as well. It requires detailed resource information, and it also requires
Orlando Sequera: expert knowledge in order to estimate those tasks before we get a lot of questions. Can you explain more? 3 point? We're gonna we're gonna look at that in the next slide. In a little more detail. There are a couple of formulas. There are a couple of ways that we can do the 3 point estimating technique.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: one is the triangular
Orlando Sequera: formula, the triangular distribution, that is basically adding the 3 scenarios and dividing by 3 and calculating an average. Or we can use the beta distribution distribution, which is the per known as the per
Orlando Sequera: from a programming graduation review and technique. That is a
Orlando Sequera: we. And we're going to. We're going to start to look at the differences between the 2 that's going to be in the next slide.
Orlando Sequera: But then we come down to the most accurate type of estimating technique that we can use. It's called bottom up.
Orlando Sequera: This is basically done at the lowest level
Orlando Sequera: of the Wbs. We estimate
Orlando Sequera: at the lowest level of the Wbs.
Orlando Sequera: We estimate at the lowest level. The Wvs. I'm going to unposs the chat. Does anybody remember what is the lowest level
Orlando Sequera: of the Wbs?
Orlando Sequera: So anybody remember what is the lowest level of the Wbs
Orlando Sequera: War package. Correct. It is the word package
Orlando Sequera: under the word package. We have the activities, but it is the word package. Great job, right? I'm going to post it chat
Orlando Sequera: so we can continue.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: when
Orlando Sequera: we are
Orlando Sequera: so
Orlando Sequera: how can they ask questions related to the estimating techniques in your Pmp. Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: You need to pay attention to the context, the type of question.
Orlando Sequera: for example, in this scenario question your stakeholders are trying to get a ballpark an idea on how long
Orlando Sequera: that duration is going to be for a the particular project, what type of estimated technique should you use? What is the best? What is the best option in this scenario? That that's an example.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so they're asking you for board per They're asking you to have an idea that is.
Orlando Sequera: which, based on that which one would you recommend. They're trying to get a ballpark idea on how long it's going to take. They're looking for. They need to have a rough, a rough order of magnitude of R and I'm. I'm going to enforce the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Which one do you think
Orlando Sequera: is the best option in that situation.
Orlando Sequera: Correct, analogous, estimating technique.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna post the chat one more time.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: what if they're looking for accuracy.
Orlando Sequera: Your stakeholders are asking asking for a high level of accuracy when it comes to the estimates they really want to have a solid understanding on how long. It's going to take you to complete the project, which one is
Orlando Sequera: what is the best option in that scenario.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna on past the chat
Orlando Sequera: bottom up correct. So that's how
Orlando Sequera: you have to pay attention to the scenario questions, and based on that that will They're going to give you some hints on to choose the best option. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: the 3 point estimation technique. This is what I was mentioning. Before
Orlando Sequera: a we can use. We can calculate an average.
Orlando Sequera: we can calculate an average, and then we add the 3 scenarios assume that that we are trying to determine the duration of completing the let's assume that the task is to comp
Orlando Sequera: pain in the house, painting the entire house internally and externally. So best case scenario is gonna be it's gonna take us 3 weeks. The optimistics and error best case in there. It's going to be 3 weeks to complete pain in the house.
Orlando Sequera: Most likely
Orlando Sequera: it's going to be 5 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: But then.
Orlando Sequera: worst case scenario or pessimistic. It is going to be 10 weeks right? So
Orlando Sequera: we can. If we're using the triangular distribution. We can
Orlando Sequera: add the 3 scenarios, and then
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: th, the 3 scenarios, and divided by 3, and in this specific case it's going to be 6 weeks. So census our it's going to take a 6 weeks to complete painting that task. The the activity of painting, the the entire house internally on external.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: we also have
Orlando Sequera: the beta distribution or per.
Orlando Sequera: and it's a little bit different. We are
Orlando Sequera: given more where they the weight that we give to the most likely scenario is, we're going to multiply that by 4.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: for them realize gonna be the optimistic scenario. 3 weeks plus, they waited, most likely estimate, which is 5 weeks times 4.
Orlando Sequera: Floss.
Orlando Sequera: The worst case scenario, which is 10 weeks or pessimistic estimate right? So the calculation we perform the calculation, and it's going to be 5.5 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: You might be wondering why.
Orlando Sequera: when should we use the beta distribution whenever we have access to experts to subject matter experts the best. If we have such a matter expert, we can use the beta distribution because
Orlando Sequera: they know they have been there. They have done that. We have that expertise. Then, if we have that expertise available, then we can use the Beta distribution, and we can come up with an estimate that it's going to be more accurate. We give more because chances are that it's going to be closer to the most likely scenario. That's when we use the beta distribution.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. But if you can see, the results are awfully similar with the with the access to the experts, it's gonna take us
Orlando Sequera: half a week
Orlando Sequera: last time in in in the the the estimates. It is
Orlando Sequera: half a week before then, not having access to those experts. Okay, so this is how we calculate the
Orlando Sequera: The actual beta distribution is.
Orlando Sequera: we add, the optimistic scenario plus
Orlando Sequera: 4 times the most likely scenario plus the pessimistic scenario. And we divide that by 6. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: critical path. We have been
Orlando Sequera: a mention in the critical path. So let's put everything that we have
Orlando Sequera: that that that we have been talking about the
Orlando Sequera: here, the dependencies and linking the activities together. That's how we build the schedule, but and that's how we build an actual what You see, here is what we call a network diagram. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: the critical path, by the way, is the most common schedule management
Orlando Sequera: technique that is used in predictive approaches.
Orlando Sequera: Hey?
Orlando Sequera: Each activity is going to be
Orlando Sequera: one box, and they're gonna it's gonna have its duration. In this case we're using weeks, not days, right.
Orlando Sequera: And and we just have to follow the arrows they are. They're indicating that dependencies. So you can see that, for example, the predecessor of activity, one is start.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: for activity.
Orlando Sequera: a for activity, one activity. One has 2
Orlando Sequera: successors, activity to an activity, 3. So you just follow the arrows right? What happens before predecessor. What happens later? The successor.
Orlando Sequera: But we need
Orlando Sequera: 2.
Orlando Sequera: The goal of the critical path is to determine is to determine
Orlando Sequera: which of the multiple paths that we have in our product in our network Drag diagram is gonna be the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: because that longest path
Orlando Sequera: it's going to be the critical path of our project. It's going to tell us how long it's going to take us to complete our project. At least
Orlando Sequera: it's the longest path. I know that it gets confusing at the beginning. We have to calculate the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: because that's gonna tell us the shortest amount of time that is gonna take us to complete our project. So let's start by
Orlando Sequera: working on that, trying to understand that with this information that we have here, I see initially, at least in this network diagram 2 paths. We are going to follow them. So we have.
Orlando Sequera: We have start. Then we move on to activity, one
Orlando Sequera: in.
Orlando Sequera: Let's go over
Orlando Sequera: this path here. Following this this path from activity one we go to activity 2, and adding right the duration 6 weeks, 6 weeks, plus 4 weeks. That's 10 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: plus 3 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: the duration of activity 4
Orlando Sequera: that is, 13 weeks right, and then the next activity is activity 6,
Orlando Sequera: which is one week in duration. So the path, the first path
Orlando Sequera: is
Orlando Sequera: the duration is 14 weeks. What we see here. But then we have a second path.
Orlando Sequera: which is activity 1 6 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: plus the duration of activity 3, which is 5 weeks. That's 11 weeks right.
Orlando Sequera: plus the duration of activity 5, that is, 4 weeks.
Orlando Sequera: That is 15
Orlando Sequera: weeks right.
Orlando Sequera: plus the duration of activity. 6, that is, one week.
Orlando Sequera: and that is 16 weeks, which one is longer.
Orlando Sequera: This path right here
Orlando Sequera: in this network diagram. This is the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: what this is telling us, and this is something that is really important for you to remember, for the exam for the exam.
Orlando Sequera: What they're looking for is
Orlando Sequera: this for the interpretation?
Orlando Sequera: You need to understand what the critical path is.
Orlando Sequera: If
Orlando Sequera: for this project is gonna take us at least 16 weeks to complete it. Hey? It's gonna take us at least 16 weeks to complete this project. That's what the critical path is telling you. You might be wondering.
Orlando Sequera: Ornando. But what do I do if my project has 500 or a 1,000 activities, what do I do? In that case.
Orlando Sequera: remember, we can always, and in in our daily lives as a project man as project managers, we use software Microsoft Project is going to calculate the critical path for you, for example, if that if that's a tool that you're using. But you need to understand where it comes from. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And another important aspect of
Orlando Sequera: the freak or path
Orlando Sequera: is that those activities that are part of the critical path, they cannot be delayed.
Orlando Sequera: If, in this specific case, if activity, one activity, 3 activity, 5 or activity. 6. Get delayed.
Orlando Sequera: Your entire project
Orlando Sequera: is going to be delayed.
Orlando Sequera: Hey? You have to safeguard. You might be wondering again Another question that i'm surprised that Hasn't come up here
Orlando Sequera: Your pro You might be wondering
Orlando Sequera: Why is it so important to calculate the quicker path? Because we need to know those activities that are part of the quicker path, so we safeguard, so we protect them because they cannot be delayed otherwise. Our entire project is going to be delayed, and we cannot. We cannot allow that to happen. That's
Orlando Sequera: the importance and and the the added value that comes with using the critical path. Super super super important.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And we're gonna answer the questions. a little bit later.
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more.
Orlando Sequera: This is a demonstration. I'm: I want to give you some some guidance here. This is just
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: just an example
Orlando Sequera: to understand a little bit more about the critical path for the exam for the exam. You need to.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: chances are that they, in previous versions of the Pmp. Exam. And going back to one of the questions I was yesterday. Yes, you had some questions before 2,021. There were some questions in which you could see a network diagram like this. And they will ask you
Orlando Sequera: to calculate the critical path, and they will ask you questions about that critical path.
Orlando Sequera: My recommendation is
Orlando Sequera: that
Orlando Sequera: it is very important to understand what it is.
Orlando Sequera: you can learn how to calculate it.
Orlando Sequera: and we can go over this exercise to add a little bit more, To understand it a little bit more. But the questions that you're going to get in your Pmp. Exam are about interpretation. If If you get a question on curriculum path they are going to be. They are going to
Orlando Sequera: they They are going to make sure that you understand the interpretation of the concept of the critical path, and you might be wondering, how can we get ready for that? Well
Orlando Sequera: take
Orlando Sequera: practice questions in test prep. Go to percipio and
Orlando Sequera: use test prep to to take practice questions. You're going to get
Orlando Sequera: great exposure to the type of questions. That's one thing that i'm also saying in the Q. And a. You're getting caught up in the minutia of things. That's not what the P. Beings.
Orlando Sequera: what the Pmp. Exam. Is all about. It's about critical thinking. Okay, they
Orlando Sequera: it is important. Yes, to understand these tools, but the minutia is not what's going to get you there. Critical thinking is what's going to get you there. So
Orlando Sequera: in this case we have
Orlando Sequera: basically to calculate the critical path. And
Orlando Sequera: with this exercise
Orlando Sequera: A:
Orlando Sequera: This is going to show you the number of paths that we have. We need to have a multiple errors. And then basically what we're going to be doing is to calculate
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: And that's what's gonna take that's what's gonna help us to understand if we have
Orlando Sequera: which one of these path is the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: A another aspect that we have to take into account is that
Orlando Sequera: activities that are part of the quicker path have some have no flow, meaning that they cannot be delayed.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I can tell you that
Orlando Sequera: activity. B.
Orlando Sequera: You can calculate the flow by the way, by subtracting your late finish minus your early finish, which is what? Look at the key here. This this let me explain the key first, and let's go over this exercise.
Orlando Sequera: But again, I just want to illustrate the point of what the critical path is, how can we do it? And then how can we?
Orlando Sequera: How can we
Orlando Sequera: put that into into effect? Put that to a test if it's the longest path. Indeed. Okay, this key here is early start. Es stands for early start.
Orlando Sequera: This is the duration.
Orlando Sequera: This is going to be early finish.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: Ls stands for early for late start. I'm sorry, then float
Orlando Sequera: and then late finish.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: the first path I here we start with start. We always start. We we start start, and then we move on through the path, and then we start, and then we complete the network diagram with finish or end.
Orlando Sequera: right. So the first path that we see here. So the duration is 3. We can say 3 days for 6 of the exercise, and then activity a.
Orlando Sequera: How do we calculate the float.
Orlando Sequera: your activity. You're going to subtract your
Orlando Sequera: from your late finished You're going to subtract your early finish, and if it's a 0 that means that this activity has.
Orlando Sequera: But chances are that that activity is going to be part of the frequent path.
Orlando Sequera: You do the same
Orlando Sequera: here to double, check
Orlando Sequera: to start, and the late start.
Orlando Sequera: You subtract a the early start
Orlando Sequera: from the late start. So one minus one that is 0,
Orlando Sequera: just to double check, and then the duration is 3. But what is the duration of this path
Orlando Sequera: following a
Orlando Sequera: See
Orlando Sequera: if
Orlando Sequera: and what is the duration of that path? I'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna
Orlando Sequera: on past the chat.
Orlando Sequera: What is the duration of that path?
Orlando Sequera: So 3 plus 2, 5 days.
Orlando Sequera: plus 3,
Orlando Sequera: 8,
Orlando Sequera: and right.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So it's 8.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Then what about this path? Activity: a
Orlando Sequera: activity D:
Orlando Sequera: Activity F.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: what is the duration of that path?
Orlando Sequera: That's 10 right. That is correct.
Orlando Sequera: 3 plus 4,
Orlando Sequera: 7, plus 3, that is 10.
Orlando Sequera: When I post a chat, and then what about the one at the bottom? So we go. Activity B for?
Orlando Sequera: And then activity.
Orlando Sequera: activity, E?
Orlando Sequera: 4. And what is the duration of that path?
Orlando Sequera: So 4
Orlando Sequera: plus 4, and
Orlando Sequera: so that's 8
Orlando Sequera: correct.
Orlando Sequera: So you gotta look at the duration.
Orlando Sequera: and that's what's gonna tell us.
Orlando Sequera: That's what the longest duration, the longest path that's going to be the critical path. So which one is the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: and we have another path in there, too, Are we missing? We're missing one path. We're missing one path.
Orlando Sequera: So what about
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The
Orlando Sequera: E.
Orlando Sequera: What is the duration of that path?
Orlando Sequera: A. D. E.
Orlando Sequera: 11.
Orlando Sequera: So based on that which one is the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: a de that is the critical path correct?
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: start
Orlando Sequera: a D. E. And that is the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: It's 11 days.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: let's take a look at the float. What I told you before.
Orlando Sequera: Those activities are part of the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: Let's put that to the test.
Orlando Sequera: What flow do they have?
Orlando Sequera: Let's take activity. E:
Orlando Sequera: If you subtract the early finish from the late finish for activity, E: 11 minus 11. That is a big 5, 0, right, 11 minus 11.
Orlando Sequera: And then what about the lay-star, namely, start
Orlando Sequera: 8 minus 8 0. That means this activity has no float activity. E 0 float whatever activity D:
Orlando Sequera: 7 minus 7, 0, 4 minus 4 0.
Orlando Sequera: No float. They cannot be delayed. That's what it means. And then activity a same thing, 3 minus 3, 0, one minus 1 0. But what about activity? C.
Orlando Sequera: What is the flow for activity? See.
Orlando Sequera: i'm gonna impose a chat. What's the flow for activity? See.
Orlando Sequera: it is 3 right.
Orlando Sequera: 8 minus 5, 3,
Orlando Sequera: 7, minus 4, 3. So it is 3 days.
Orlando Sequera: That means that
Orlando Sequera: i'm. Posting the chat again. That means that
Orlando Sequera: as long as activity. These no activity. See in this case. I'm: sorry it's not delay for more than 3 days. We are okay. We have up to 3 days for activity, c. To be delayed. Now, if we get to late 4 days, then our project is going to be late.
Orlando Sequera: but we have some. We we have some buffer Here we have some float.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by float
Orlando Sequera: that's going to happen only for activities that are not part of the critical path, any activity that is part of the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna have a float off 0. You cannot allow those activities to be delayed, otherwise your entire project is going to be delayed. Okay, super super, super, important to understand when it comes to a quicker path if the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: But it's the shortest time that it's gonna take you to complete this project in this case.
Orlando Sequera: How many days at least it's gonna take you to complete this project
Orlando Sequera: and then go to unprof the chat. How many days at least.
Orlando Sequera: gonna take it to complete this product? It's gonna take you at least 11 days to complete this project, because that's the longest path.
Orlando Sequera: That is the definition of the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to post the chat.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A little bit more about the project Schedule
Orlando Sequera: reschedule is putting all that information together. It covers
Orlando Sequera: start and finish activities. We link the dependencies. We use our presence
Orlando Sequera: diagramming method with the dependencies.
Orlando Sequera: Our a all of that is
Orlando Sequera: is included. We have a certain sequence with certain dates. We have dates for project milestones. Remember that our milestone is an actual.
Orlando Sequera: significant event that occurs in our project. This is what's going to help us to coordinate activities to make sure that we have an on Time Project Completion. That's the beauty of the project scheduled, and it's also going to help us to track our progress based on scheduled performance
Orlando Sequera: and based on a, and it's also gonna allow us to provide visibility to upper management so they can understand our project Progress right? So it is a key element of any project they can be presented in multiple formats. Right? If we are using
Orlando Sequera: predictive approach is very common to present the schedule using a game chart. That is one view.
Orlando Sequera: a possible view, and we're going to see it in the next. Slide off your schedule, showing the milestones and showing the different tasks and the completion and percentages of completion. You can view a milestone chart and then show different bars that can they provide idea on how well we're performing
Orlando Sequera: based on those milestones or where we are. But if we're following up an adaptive approach, it's very common to use a roadmap, so we can. It then track progress. That's another view.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, then.
Orlando Sequera: that what is the tool that we use for
Orlando Sequera: and for scheduling activities in a project plan? That is the scheduled network diagram.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. And this is a
Orlando Sequera: graphic representation. This is a an actual example of a game chart. Microsoft project will create this for you. It
Orlando Sequera: it shows the different activities. So this is, for example, for face one, and these are the different activities we Haven't entered the hours yet, but we assigned these are the resources that are going to be working on those activities, and this is the percentage of progress. And then we can see the dates as well.
Orlando Sequera: Your stakeholders are usually very well, From familiarized with a cantor, and they can see they can track a comprehensive project. Progress against a the dates that we have in the gutter. That's one of the typical views that you use
Orlando Sequera: in project management, software like
Orlando Sequera: Microsoft Project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, then we have
Orlando Sequera: another view of the schedule is the milestone schedule.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: going to allow you to have a milestone view with planned dates, and then how well we're tracking against those different milestones. So we we start phase one. That's a master. That's because it's a significant event. We started working on phase one.
Orlando Sequera: Then the the live. What we're saying here with Id number 31 deliver a is that by the beginning of April, by April fourth, we're planning to have completed deliver deliverable a. And then, by the end of April, beginning of May, we're planning to have completely deliverable B.
Orlando Sequera: That is a significant master. You might be wondering what is the different between a milestone and a project activity. Well, milestones. We use them in our schedules when we create our schedules in
Orlando Sequera: uses them using a project management information software like Microsoft Project, for example, milestones
Orlando Sequera: do not have any duration. My milestones have a duration of 0
Orlando Sequera: because they only are used to represent a significant event in the project.
Orlando Sequera: They they are they.
Orlando Sequera: That's one of the difference that they have compared to an activity. Another difference is that activities. They do have resources assigned to them.
Orlando Sequera: and they also have a cost assigned to them. Milestones have 0 duration.
Orlando Sequera: They do not have any resources assigned to them.
Orlando Sequera: and they do not have any cost assigned to them. They're only used to represent significant events in your project.
Orlando Sequera: Another view that we can use to present your schedule is
Orlando Sequera: what we call the schedule network diagram.
Orlando Sequera: and that this is just an example. Basically, viewing what we, what we use for the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, but I have some good news for you. Soft, my project management software, like Microsoft Project, it will calculate the critical path for you imagine, if you had to do
Orlando Sequera: to do that manually with 500 700 activities? Right? That'll take some some time. It's not impossible. But it will it's gonna it's gonna be very time consuming. So that's 1 one of the beauties that you have with
Orlando Sequera: project management. Software but you need to understand what it means. And remember that's what the Pmp. Exam. Is looking for.
Orlando Sequera: So you understand the definition, the interpretation of the critical path, and they're going to ask you questions on that. What type of questions
Orlando Sequera: I just mentioned? Briefly, one. But I will then strongly suggest you to start taking practice questions in test prep. That's ha! That's how you're going to get ready for the Pmp. Exam with the practice questions.
Orlando Sequera: But now we have build the schedule.
Orlando Sequera: We have calculated the quicker path.
Orlando Sequera: Can we make it better?
Orlando Sequera: And this is where some of the questions also. What do I? What what do we do if we are using a
Orlando Sequera: What do we do to improve this schedule? Right to map out the schedule? What we we start working with resources, we start. We need to start allocating resources to our schedule. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: when we do that we work and remember, the goal should be. To build a schedule is as
Orlando Sequera: accurate as possible as realistic as possible. Right? We need
Orlando Sequera: duration estimates. We added that we build the dependencies. We we're able to link all of our activities. But now we are going to work on resources because those activities are going to be done. I'm going to be done. We need resources to them, not only people, but we need materials when it supplies we need a equipment.
Orlando Sequera: Okay. So now let's incorporate that and let's see how we can make sure that we're making the best use of those resources. So for that, to make sure that we're making the best, we're being as efficient as possible with the way we're using our resources. We use
Orlando Sequera: 2 techniques.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is what we call resource moving.
Orlando Sequera: and this
Orlando Sequera: 2
Orlando Sequera: good, some
Orlando Sequera: pretty fine resource limits
Orlando Sequera: in the project activities, so we can then.
Orlando Sequera: and what we
Orlando Sequera: much reality as possible, because we're gonna have some limitations. For example, we can build the schedule, and perhaps we said we calculated, for example, that it's going to take us 16 weeks
Orlando Sequera: to complete the schedule. But when we start looking at those activities we start saying that this is gonna be 16 weeks if we work 60 h a week.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: that's that's not gonna go well. So we gotta make it more realistic. We have to put some a predefined resource limits about the number of hours that we're going to be working per week and limit that
Orlando Sequera: in them.
Orlando Sequera: In this case we could be 40 or 45 h depending on what the organization allows.
Orlando Sequera: So let's assume that they only allow up to 45 h per week. So then that's a that's a way that you can predefine your
Orlando Sequera: the the resource limits. In that case, that's just an example, right? Just an example. So you are building that realistic scheduled. You're not saying oh, it's going to take a 16 weeks. But if we were 60 h a week they
Orlando Sequera: First leveling is also
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: just in your. That's another way to optimize your schedule from the resource perspective. But in this case you're balancing the demand for resources with the
Orlando Sequera: the with the availability of resources that you have at the moment. So you don't have perhaps in some weeks you're working a people are working
Orlando Sequera: if 45 h for them in the next 2 weeks. They're only working 10 h, right? So you want to balance that out. You're based on your resource availability. So it's as even as possible. You want to level that out.
Orlando Sequera: and for the entire schedule of your project as much as possible, so you are not over working people, and not or working
Orlando Sequera: not really making the best use of your resources throughout the entire duration of your project. That's what's going to help us to be as efficient as possible with the way you manage your resources in your project.
Orlando Sequera: That's one way that we can optimize our
Orlando Sequera: schedule. The second is. And this addresses some of the questions that some of you had
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: in the Q. And a. Before we went to break.
Orlando Sequera: What do we do? If
Orlando Sequera: in the event of
Orlando Sequera: we need to, we we need to meet some new day constraints. We. We said that it was gonna take a 6 months to complete this project, but all of a sudden
Orlando Sequera: opera management came back and said, No, we are. We have a we have a hard cost train. Our customers are expecting. We have a construction obligation to complete this product in 4 months. What do I do? So in that situation? Step number one.
Orlando Sequera: You start with your resources. You want to make sure that you are with smoothing and leveling that you are not over working people, that you're making the best use possible of your resources for your project. That step number one step number 2 is
Orlando Sequera: schedule compression techniques.
Orlando Sequera: This is also another way to optimize your your schedule to address some of those situations.
Orlando Sequera: The first
Orlando Sequera: technique
Orlando Sequera: is fast tracking.
Orlando Sequera: Basically
Orlando Sequera: with fast tracking is performing some activities that you originally said or laid out in your schedule that we're gonna be done sequentially. And let me go back to this to the schedule diagram To illustrate that point, basically a
Orlando Sequera: an example would be If you look at activity, age and activity F, we're doing them sequentially. If we say that we're going to fast track activities, H. And F
Orlando Sequera: to compress. The schedule. Basically means that activity. F. And H. Are going to be in parallel, like activities. Bnc: actually, activities. B and C are an example of
Orlando Sequera: activities that are being done in parallel. So we're gonna fast track. We're gonna do things that normally we will do in parallel. Now, we're gonna do them or sequentially. Now, we're gonna do them in parallel. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that has some drawbacks. That is not a silver bullet that has some drawbacks, major considerations. Yes, we can do some activities in parallel, but this might have an impact on the quality of your
Orlando Sequera: project
Orlando Sequera: may result in. We were because originally there is a reason why you were doing those activities
Orlando Sequera: in a sequence sequentially right. So you gotta take that into account, and that might increase risks, and it might increase
Orlando Sequera: cost because because of possible rework, and it an example of fast tracking
Orlando Sequera: for those of you that like, i'm gonna go back to sports a f one or nascar
Orlando Sequera: a pit. Stop right
Orlando Sequera: you. If you pay attention, the pit. Stop. We have
Orlando Sequera: groups that are changing the tires, and they're basically doing multiple things, refueling the car, changing the tires. All of that happens at the same time, right? And if you see, because if you did, oh, well, let's change the tires.
Orlando Sequera: then refuel the card, then that will take forever. And then.
Orlando Sequera: by the time they're done, the race is over right? So in some cases that's that's an example of fast tracking, but it requires very specialized.
Orlando Sequera: the crew has to be very, very specialized. They they're train, they they know what they're doing, and it is safe. But can you imagine the average person trying to do everything that happens in a pit? Stop a at the same time a bunch of average people. That would be a disaster. That would be a disaster. I wouldn't even
Orlando Sequera: want to think about. That Will might drive rework, increase, risk and increase cost that wouldn't one. Those people touching a vehicle. Okay, so. But that's an example of fast tracking.
Orlando Sequera: It works in some cases, but we it's an option that we have, but it's not always going to be a silver bullet. We gotta take into account the possible impacts, but it is a possibility.
Orlando Sequera: and we gotta get the team members involved in those discussions. They, the other one is pretty easier to understand is crashing.
Orlando Sequera: Crashing means it's the classic, Go to that Many people over match and have it. Let's row more bodies at it. Let's add more people. That's what crashing is adding more people to the activities in order to shorten the duration.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, I'll give you a quick example, let's assume for a minute that we're trying to crash the schedule, and one of the activities is painting. The rooms is taking 6 h to pay in each room
Orlando Sequera: with 2 painters. Okay, list app.
Orlando Sequera: 2 more painters or let's add 4 more painters
Orlando Sequera: at the same time. But
Orlando Sequera: it that's
Orlando Sequera: the many people tend to think that. Yeah, by adding more people. That's that's going to shorten theuration up to in some cases. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: in some cases it's going to work. But you're going to take into account all the variables
Orlando Sequera: when you start having way. Too many people pain in a room. They're gonna to start bumping into each other, and it's actually going to be it. It could be the opposite. It could take longer. Or what about the level of expertise? You might have some experience, painters. It takes 6 h to experience painters, but if you have. If you have 4
Orlando Sequera: new painters that that are starting their Korean and painting, then
Orlando Sequera: that it might take 7 h. So
Orlando Sequera: that's something that we have that that it's not always a silver bullet. In some cases it works, it only works
Orlando Sequera: for, or we should apply that to activities that are part of the critical path. But it's not a silver bullet, either. Okay, we have that option. It works in some cases, but it's on a case by case. And there, that's what you can use to optimize your schedule in
Orlando Sequera: some cases. Yes, it's going to be people adding more developers, for example, to develop a software, a functionality. It works in some cases, but it's on a case
Orlando Sequera: case. scenario, right? It's not a silver bullet.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And after we have that in place, and we optimize our schedule from the resource perspective. We build our schedule and we optimize our schedule from using schedule compression techniques. We have
Orlando Sequera: finally being able to put together our schedule, and we can come up with our
Orlando Sequera: and with our
Orlando Sequera: scheduled baseline, which is the approved
Orlando Sequera: version of the schedule that is only going to change through a change control process and pay attention that we're talking here about predictive pay attention to that. We're talking about predictive.
Orlando Sequera: This baseline is only going to change through a change controlled process the same way that we did with the scope baseline. So this is the second baseline that we have for our project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: So at ideally you should come. This is going to help you to complete the scheduled prime activities.
Orlando Sequera: And you should add this the baseline to your overall project management plan.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And then it's going to help you to compare your actual progress.
Orlando Sequera: to which is what we call plan values
Orlando Sequera: to your
Orlando Sequera: A, to what we plan for
Orlando Sequera: that. That plan is the scheduled baseline.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and we only change it through the formal change control process
Orlando Sequera: we do with this called baseline.
Orlando Sequera: and then, finally, we have something that we call special intervals. We have to also
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: take those into account in your planning.
Orlando Sequera: in in your planning efforts.
Orlando Sequera: If, for example, blackout times.
Orlando Sequera: when you're working on something and you want to suspend changes pencils down. That's what we call a blackout time, you that's also known as a special interval
Orlando Sequera: A. At the end of your project when you're transitioning your project to production. You have to schedule for a go life that happens at the end of your project, and this has to be negotiated with your stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: A, and has to be coordinated with your stakeholders. So you also have some special in the you have to take them. Take this into account in order to
Orlando Sequera: for your schedule planning purposes
as well.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: What are the guidelines for
Orlando Sequera: schedule management when it comes to an agile approach that we are following
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: Even though, as I mentioned before, in agile, we usually have ceilings. We might have a final completion, date already established.
Orlando Sequera: Remember the major projects. The scope is not fixed. We don't have a baseline for the scope.
Orlando Sequera: The scope is changing. We know that going in
Orlando Sequera: to the number of changes. That's why we decided to go with this approach. So a even though we might have
Orlando Sequera: an actual completion day target date 6 months for now or a year from now or 3 months from now we Still, this is a the planning. The scheduled planning is going to be aligned with the priorities that are set by the business
Orlando Sequera: in the following: the guidelines a of the product owner, the representative. So it really depends on the team composition and the life cycle that we choose.
Orlando Sequera: The project team is going to coordinate this work
Orlando Sequera: with the product owner, because the fork owner is the steward of the scope of an adaptive project.
Orlando Sequera: and they're going to develop the roadmap to show their release of functionality at certain specific timeframes.
Orlando Sequera: I have seen many organizations that they have a monthly release some of the organizations they do a quarterly release. It changes from organization to organization, but it's usually more multiple iterations of sprint that get released at the same time
Orlando Sequera: A. They choose an approach. They can do it, using a time box approach scheduling.
Orlando Sequera: Last I mentioned before every month or every quarter, for example, or they can do it on demand
Orlando Sequera: as needed, meaning that whenever it makes sense there's not a cadence, and necessarily necessarily a cadence. This more they release functionality whenever is needed whenever it makes sense. That's also another way. You don't need to have a regular cadence for that
Orlando Sequera: and the project team, as we have said, they select activities that will be delivered within the iteration. They're the ones that are going to decide what's going to be built in a particular iteration, and the team is going to be producing incrementally, functionally over the
Orlando Sequera: actual
Orlando Sequera: life cycle of the project one iteration of time. They're going to be building functionally and incrementally right. Not all the functionality One single sprint, because it's only 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks. They're going to be building incrementally.
Orlando Sequera: I feel the approaches.
Orlando Sequera: Comparing
Orlando Sequera: the on demand approach, which is lean, lean, based compared to time. Box is that
Orlando Sequera: and we're following a on demand approach.
Orlando Sequera: we allow individual requests to be addressed because we're going to release whenever it makes sense.
Orlando Sequera: It levels out the work of the team members, and this works better when activities are actually divided equally
Orlando Sequera: compared to a time box or iterative approach following a cadence.
Orlando Sequera: These uses progressive elaboration to schedule activities, and they have a specific work interval, for example, to every 2 weeks, and it allows changes at any time during the project.
Orlando Sequera: The goal. If we're following a an on demand approach.
Orlando Sequera: we should prioritize the request to start the sequence, and then sequence of stores individually through completion, through completion.
Orlando Sequera: The team pulls the work from the queue whenever they are available to work on those sign names, and it's a think of it! Whenever you see Cameron or Lean based.
Orlando Sequera: think of a conveyor belt. That work is constant, the workflow is constant, and the team members are picking up pieces of work to work on whenever they have availability. Think of a manufacturing setting in a in a car production facility like for DM. Or Toyota, for example.
Orlando Sequera: So the team members pull work from the queue whenever they are, they have capacity, which is, which means, whenever they are available. And these provides incremental business value.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a time box, approach
Orlando Sequera: they
Orlando Sequera: the with the 5 requirements with user stories.
Orlando Sequera: as we said, that's how we write requirements in Agile. And then we're going to prioritize these user stories.
Orlando Sequera: working with the product owner, and we select the work based on the priorities wherever it is, at the top of the pro backlock.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're going to be able to deliver business value early, because we are developing the actual priorities. The actual high value items first, and we're building in increments
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: about.
Orlando Sequera: They adaptive planning view.
Orlando Sequera: I've released, scheduled, as I was mentioned before you should last 3 to 6 months, and you in a release. You're going to really. You're going to be able to release the functionality that was built in multiple iterations. This is a good
Orlando Sequera: overview, was what I was mentioning before you're going to be able to release Mo: a lot of functionality that was completed in multiple iterations. You group that, and then your release. That is quarterly.
Orlando Sequera: In some cases
Orlando Sequera: it it could be every 6 months.
Orlando Sequera: whatever the organization decides, but they try to be strategic. For example, they have been able to determine that
Orlando Sequera: the user the users we're working in a
Orlando Sequera: Our project is to enhance
Orlando Sequera: messaging mobile app right?
Orlando Sequera: And we have been able to determine
Orlando Sequera: that our customer preferences are actually are asking for security.
Orlando Sequera: They need. They want to see more security features in Whatsapp. So what happens is that all this iterations, any features, related any function I relate to security. It's gonna it's gonna become more important. It's gonna be at the top of the product backlog, and that's what the teams.
Orlando Sequera: The teams are gonna most likely be developing in the next few iterations. Whenever the business or the customers see that we have enough functionality to release
Orlando Sequera: it to
Orlando Sequera: to release into production that covers a security. That's when this.
Orlando Sequera: But this group of iterations are going to be released together, all that functionality, and that's how we're going to be able to a address. Those customer preferences. That's pretty much
Orlando Sequera: in a nutshell. How it works, and there's some terminology here. Velocity is, how quickly the team can produce a functionality Complete those
Orlando Sequera: user stories. That's what we mean by velocity. How quickly the team can produce a velocity. We are going to take a break
Orlando Sequera: right now when we come back. The addressing a questions that we have in the Q. A. So we continue
Orlando Sequera: with a company. Okay. So we're gonna take our 10 min break and we will be right back.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you very much. Everyone.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna take a few minutes to address some of the questions in the Q. A.
Orlando Sequera: And remember, please vote on the questions in the Q. A. So I i'm going to start by the ones I have the most votes.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
And
Orlando Sequera: a question here, I think.
Orlando Sequera: This is a probably about the application for requirements where you work in projects. We're not always leading projects. It's about leading projects. A. That is the experience that you need to have.
Orlando Sequera: But what's your videos we have
Orlando Sequera: in the resources. We have videos of the app about the application that can help you.
Orlando Sequera: to understand
Orlando Sequera: that in a little bit more detail.
Okay.
Hmm.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: for I see some questions about what is forward, past and backward past
Orlando Sequera: in the exam. In the current version of the exam, in the current version of the exam that start in 2,021.
Orlando Sequera: You do not need
Orlando Sequera: to.
Orlando Sequera: You're not going to have questions that are going to ask you to calculate the critical
Orlando Sequera: path of a project like
Orlando Sequera: like it like it was before
Orlando Sequera: when I took it many years ago. That was the case.
Orlando Sequera: but that's no longer the case with this new version of the Exempt.
Orlando Sequera: A. The actual
Orlando Sequera: forward past and backward paths are going to allow you to calculate the early start and the early finish, and the late start, and the late finished the early start in the early finish. You can you use the
Orlando Sequera: the forward fast
Orlando Sequera: and to calculate the late start of the late finish. You use the backward pass.
Orlando Sequera: and that's how you ultimately can calculate the float of your
Orlando Sequera: activities. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: But what you need to know about the critical path for the exam is
Orlando Sequera: the interpretation, the definition? What does it mean?
Orlando Sequera: It? It is the longest path, meaning that is the shortest time that it's gonna take us to complete the project. You need to know the definition. They the interpretation really well. And you also need to know what happens. If an activity that is part of the critical path
Orlando Sequera: is delayed, what happens?
Orlando Sequera: You can. You can delay those activities.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: because if they get delayed, your entire project gets delayed. That's what you have to safeguard as a project manager. Make sure that you understand
Orlando Sequera: what the critical path is the definition? The questions are going to be about interpretation, critical thinking.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, Pmi is not looking for. to it's not. It's not really looking for
Orlando Sequera: to be able to determine whether you know how to perform a back or pass, or a forward pass. That's not what they're looking for, what they're looking for is to make sure that you understand what it is and what your role is when it comes to the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: What do you have to do when it to to protect activities that are part of the curriculum path, using scheduled compression techniques, fast tracking, and also resource of a fast tracking and crashing.
Orlando Sequera: and also using a from the resource perspective resource of some optimization techniques
Orlando Sequera: like resource, leveling and resource moving. Okay, that's what they're looking for. To make sure that you can apply those tools and techniques to your project schedule. You're send. There. Are they? Are scenario.
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: questions, and you're going to have it's about problem solving. I guess the best way to describe the Pmp. Exam. Questions.
Orlando Sequera: They are of our problem installments. Your
Orlando Sequera: a mindset should be. I'm going to go to that exam to solve a 180 different problems.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Going to continue with the questions.
Orlando Sequera: Can you elaborate on the difference between active iteration and effort.
Orlando Sequera: and for his express. As our things.
The
Orlando Sequera: duration is expressed the same way. They they come to be the same. Look at it as the same. It's the duration. How long it's going to take you to complete the activity, and you will be a
Orlando Sequera: that's that's what you. That's the important aspect you how long it's going to take when you consideration. How long is it going to take you to complete that activity? Try to make it as as clear as possible. Not make it come, not make it convoluted. So look at the duration aspect.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: for the purposes of the exempt.
Orlando Sequera: That was, Answer
Orlando Sequera: another question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: How would you about? I'm: Sorry. Not in the in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: How would you advice? Translated military project planning.
Orlando Sequera: actually doing the product to break experience
Orlando Sequera: that some great
Orlando Sequera: question
Orlando Sequera: I will recommend you to leverage.
Orlando Sequera: Not gonna venture I I was not in the military, so i'm not gonna venture to do that. But I am sure that in your organizations, whether you're coming from on on more to opportunity or a. There's another organization that also supports Professionals like you.
Orlando Sequera: They are. They have resources that can help you with that to translate your military planning experience to your midterm experience to planning experience. It's a great transition. So
Orlando Sequera: I would recommend you to look for those resources in your respective organization.
Orlando Sequera: what other questions.
Okay, I
trying
Orlando Sequera: there is a question.
Orlando Sequera: Is the velocity usually share outside the product team? Yes, you can share that information with our stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: But velocity is something is. Remember how quickly project teams are
Orlando Sequera: working or producing a
Orlando Sequera: user stories or features. Put
Orlando Sequera: One thing that we have to keep in mind is that
Orlando Sequera: velocity. It starts with the estimation.
We
Orlando Sequera: do. Different teams have different velocities, and we shouldn't. We should try to not.
Orlando Sequera: Some things might have a a
Orlando Sequera: a lower velocity compared to other teams, but they might be dealing with higher complexity items. So it's not always apples to apples. Okay, so yes, that can be sure outside the team, but
Orlando Sequera: with that a constraint, that velocity for it it shouldn't be. Look! Look equally across the board. It changes from team to team because they're working in with different levels and different degrees of complexity, and also their their skill set level is also different. So with that caveat I would say
Orlando Sequera: another question.
Orlando Sequera: think this is a question for the application requirements? What if you work on projects? We're not always leading projects for some of our leading projects.
Orlando Sequera: I recommend to.
Orlando Sequera: We have some resources that can help you with the application as well.
Orlando Sequera: Another question do the
Orlando Sequera: the predecessor do the precedent set for predecessors and successors have to be 100% accurate for the critical path to be right. Well, you're estimating that duration
Orlando Sequera: right? So that duration is an estimate. It's an approximation, but that's the best that you have. So you just go with that. No, nothing is going to be 100 right. This is based on
Orlando Sequera: estimates. Okay, you know, on approximation. But you need to have an idea about the critical path. How long it's going to take you to complete your project, because that's one question that your stakeholders are going to ask you how long it's going to take you to complete my project.
Orlando Sequera: That's one. They might not know anything of a project management, but they're going to ask you the question: how is it going to take us to? Is it going to take your team to complete the project and the answer.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to come from that critical path.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: what is the actual calculation that you are using for critical path, i'm. Adding the duration of the different paths
Orlando Sequera: and the longest duration that is the critical path, the longest path that is the critical path.
Orlando Sequera: So activity F. Has one day flow
Orlando Sequera: erez agmoni. If he has a float, that means that it's not part of the creek or path. I will have to go back and check. But that might be the case. You subtract the late finish from the late start. 1, 2,
Orlando Sequera: and that's how
Orlando Sequera: you know
Orlando Sequera: usually there's a question
Orlando Sequera: slide 68. Why is there a one under the start box and the diagram and it's counted somewhere in the quicker path?
Orlando Sequera: No, No, it's not counted this just to indicate the start after that of the
Orlando Sequera: the start of the network diagram.
Orlando Sequera: Another question.
Orlando Sequera: They will drag that
Orlando Sequera: that flexibility is the cushion for unknown hindrances.
Orlando Sequera: Nope.
Orlando Sequera: that's what we call reserves. This is only how much time can an activity be delayed? That's what the float is. But it's not
Orlando Sequera: a buffer. It is.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to talk about reserves later.
Orlando Sequera: That will be that cushion. So the the
Orlando Sequera: if lake star might necessarily start. It's not equal to late finish, minus
Orlando Sequera: or late. Finish my late start.
Orlando Sequera: If it's not equal, you are in trouble. You're not doing something right.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: you're not doing something right.
me
Orlando Sequera: right. I think we are getting.
Orlando Sequera: If another question, if the flow is calculated, calculate it's different from start to end, you go with the largest as long as number they have to match in both.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: and otherwise you're doing something wrong. When you calculate the forward pass or the
Orlando Sequera: backward path.
Orlando Sequera: But again, that is not.
Orlando Sequera: And the type of question that you're gonna get in the Pmp. Exam about the critical path. But if you want to do a deeper dive, you can check PIN box, 6 edition, and it will give you
Orlando Sequera: a deeper dive. And we also have in precipio videos about the curriculum path that can walk you through that process in more detail. If you're interested in knowing a little bit more. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question that do research, compression, or optimization requires documentation or approval. Yes, they require approval Absolutely, absolutely.
Orlando Sequera: But you're doing this usually as a request from your a from the stakeholders.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, and we're going to continue with
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna continue with the content. Right?
Orlando Sequera: Another question. Do parallel activities always have to be on the same exact timetable in terms of metrics, indicating Mount on accomplishment.
Orlando Sequera: If their parallel meaning it means that you're going to be doing them at the same time.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another question, how does that go? Life a special interval? You get a coordinate that before you transition to production. Otherwise
Orlando Sequera: that's going to be a disaster. You're going to coordinate that. And that's a special interval.
Orlando Sequera: because you need coordination before you transition
Orlando Sequera: what you're building in your project to a live environment.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so let's go ahead and continue with the content
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to working with features.
Orlando Sequera: Scheduling is gonna help you to
Orlando Sequera: align the way we're building features.
Orlando Sequera: If you
Orlando Sequera: it's gonna help you to make sure that your it, the way you're building the features is so is is a coordinated in the most efficient way. So that's important to keep in mind.
Orlando Sequera: and the high level estimate in the feature shows when the blocks functionality can be released
Orlando Sequera: to the business and end users, and that's where we use that
Orlando Sequera: agile release. Planning. With story mapping, we sequence we a group user stories
Orlando Sequera: to make sure that we deliver what needs to be delivered at the right time. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: a story map is helpful when starting to look at the stories that pertain to our release that allows the features to be sequenced in the most efficient way possible, so that the user stories that
Orlando Sequera: pertain to those
Orlando Sequera: it features our associated and prioritized
Orlando Sequera: and they are released first.
Orlando Sequera: the determination of which user stories are addressed in it. Iteration, then, considers not just the priority and value of individual stories, but the sequence
Orlando Sequera: and priority identified in the map. So it's a way to group
Orlando Sequera: features right by user stories.
Orlando Sequera: so to make sure that what we release is aligned with the priorities that we have
Orlando Sequera: from the business
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to agile one thing that it is really important to keep in mind when it comes to agile. The way we do estimation is a little bit different. We do not estimate duration.
Orlando Sequera: We. We have to estimate the effort associated with this with the development of these features, and by that I mean with developing the user stories that are in the backlog. Okay, we do estimation in agile in a different way
Orlando Sequera: we have. We have. We have 3 techniques that we can use to estimate the or the effort. One is
Orlando Sequera: what is called t-shirt sizing? That's relative.
Orlando Sequera: Hmm, sizing. And it's basically using a t-shirt sizes for
Orlando Sequera: the level of effort associated with completing or developing a user story, a requirement right? So For example, if we're talking about the software for the accounting department.
Orlando Sequera: the monthly sales report, or the accounts payable accounts, receivable report. That is a major endeavor. I'm going to venture. That is an extra large.
Orlando Sequera: possibly an extra extra large size compared to
Orlando Sequera: a being able to add new users to the application right? If the user story might be something like this
Orlando Sequera: some administrator I would like, I would like to be able to add the users to the application. So all the users can start working with the accounting software.
Orlando Sequera: That's an example of the user story. That is, Pro: that's very standard functionality.
Orlando Sequera: 3 in a new account in an application. I'm going to venture to say that that's possibly a small or even an extra small a user story. That's how the estimation is going to be done.
Orlando Sequera: One thing that is important to keep in mind in agile.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following an adaptive approach, the estimation is done strictly a 100. By the people doing the work, and by that I mean the project team members. It's not done by the pro manager. It's done by the per owner. It's done by the stakeholders. It's not done by
Orlando Sequera: this chrome master is done by the people doing the work. The team members okay.
Orlando Sequera: in predictive Ideally.
Orlando Sequera: the estimates should come from the people doing the work, put in agile interactive. That's a must.
Orlando Sequera: It comes a 100 from the people doing the work.
Orlando Sequera: That's one way of doing the estimation. Another way is very common is using what we call user story points.
Orlando Sequera: That is, basically using a series of numbers based on the Fibonacci sequence.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: the principle behind it is very simple. The more points, the more complex the functionality is.
Orlando Sequera: So. They use a, for example, at one pointer that the user story of adding a new account to the accounting software that's probably 1 one pointer or 3 points.
Orlando Sequera: Compare to the user story of
Orlando Sequera: being able to generate that monthly sales report. That's a major endeavor. That's probably a 21 pointer
Orlando Sequera: just to give an idea. So the more points the more complex. That's the whole idea, the whole principle behind using
Orlando Sequera: user story points. It takes away that
Orlando Sequera: a a motion of duration.
Orlando Sequera: and this is just looking at complexity, just looking at complexity. And then the estimation is done. Using something that we see here using planning poker
Orlando Sequera: in which your the your a project team members. They get a take of cards and then
Orlando Sequera: a facilitator. Normally the scrum master reads out loud the user story, and based on that on the kind of 3 they
Orlando Sequera: pro the project team members can estimate the duration okay, and they can vote. And ideally, the goal is to reach consensus on the estimates. So that's one way to perform estimation in agile projects. But it is about
Orlando Sequera: effort, not about time, because we're working with complexity. We're working. We need
Orlando Sequera: We need to take away that emotion of saying that some something is going to last 4 h or 8 h. We're dealing with a lot of complexity going in. We know that. So for that reason the recommendation is in adaptive to use this type of estimate techniques using a
Orlando Sequera: user story points or using relative sicing.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's the recommendation.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: A couple of aspects that are part of
Orlando Sequera: agile.
Orlando Sequera: The definition of ready definition of tone.
Orlando Sequera: The team needs to know when they can be ready to do the work. Okay, but they also need to know when they work. It's going to be considered
Orlando Sequera: done.
Orlando Sequera: A. This is a variance. This is a variant of acceptance criteria. The definition of ready
Orlando Sequera: is is basically going to name what needs to be in place for the team to begin the work with some assurance that the team
Orlando Sequera: that they work can be completed by the team.
Orlando Sequera: These
Orlando Sequera: has a dependency on the environment's complexity and lessons learned from previous print or iterations.
Orlando Sequera: and normally they use checklist to communicate and collaborate with stakeholders about readiness for work or progress.
Orlando Sequera: Definition of tone.
Orlando Sequera: It's a little bit different. It's about
Orlando Sequera: the desired.
Orlando Sequera: They They
Orlando Sequera: completion that were the the completion of the items that we're trying to produce. That's what we mean by definition of Don. It's a check. It's a checklist. Basically.
Orlando Sequera: a the definition of done has multiple elements.
Orlando Sequera: and you might be wondering. Well, we we talked about the acceptance criteria that is applicable to both
Orlando Sequera: predictive approaches and agile or adaptive approaches we as an acceptance criteria, because it's a if they come.
Orlando Sequera: It's a criteria that covers all the elements that we have to be able to complete in order to to to say that a deliverable was completed. That is specific, added at the requirement level.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to agile we use
Orlando Sequera: another checklist, which is the definition of done, because we all the if we only rely on this specific
Orlando Sequera: acceptance criteria for each.
Orlando Sequera: A specific user story. And we don't have a global checklist that covers important aspects.
Orlando Sequera: Things might fall through the cracks like quality aspects. And
Orlando Sequera: a all the security aspects, for example. So we gotta have a global list. And, By the way, the acceptance criteria is an element of the definition of done. And that's how, by meeting checking all those boxes in that checklist. That's how we can say that something is
Orlando Sequera: done. A 100% done. Done.
Orlando Sequera: One big difference that we have
Orlando Sequera: comparing agile to predictive is that
Orlando Sequera: in predictive we can track progress.
Orlando Sequera: For example, when we compare our
Orlando Sequera: performance
Orlando Sequera: we started a project, and we plan to complete this project in 3 months.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we're gonna. That's what we said that it was gonna take us to to complete this project, and we can it then at at any given point in time we can track our progress. So right now, activities a B and C are 85% complete.
Orlando Sequera: or 90% complete or 75% complete percentage of completion. Right Compare we Can we do that in predictive voting agile? That's not the case. It's either done or not done. That's a major difference between
Orlando Sequera: agile and predictive in agile. We don't have 85% on 99%. On No, we have it's either. Done, so we gotta be able to check every single item in both the acceptance criteria and the definition of done, which, by the way.
Orlando Sequera: the acceptance criteria is one of the boxes that you have in the definition of Don. If you cannot do that, you are not done, You, Don't, you have a 100 items that you check 99 there's one missing that is not complete. You are not done so that's one big difference between agile
Orlando Sequera: and predictive and predictive. We use percentage of completion in agile. We don't okay
Orlando Sequera: a little bit more
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to reprioritizing. This has to happen at the end of each iteration.
Orlando Sequera: because priorities change prior to this, this is how agile can accommodate change.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: The product owner and the team are gonna work together in moving items
Orlando Sequera: from the actual product backlog to the iteration or or spring backlog
Orlando Sequera: for the next print, right? That's what happens in spring planning.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: in this print planning meeting.
Orlando Sequera: They're gonna make those decisions, and that's where also the team is gonna get
Orlando Sequera: verification. They're going to have questions to the product owner about the features that they have to develop. Okay, Mr. Mrs. Pont, the product owner.
Orlando Sequera: This report this accounts payable report.
Orlando Sequera: What format do you want to see this reporting? Is it a Pdf report? Is that an excel expression? Is it a word document, what fields you want to see?
Orlando Sequera: What callers do you want to see?
Orlando Sequera: A. What funds do you want us to use? What size of the phones. So all those questions is this report feeding on the reports? Are all the reports fitting into this report. That's where they get all that clarification.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so they can then understand it really well, and break it down. Break that user story down into tasks. That's done directly by the team
Orlando Sequera: team itself. It's a self-organized unit that is going to break down those features in or user stories into tasks.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so that's what happens when we
Orlando Sequera: a we prior to say, with with back to the
Orlando Sequera: in iteration background.
Orlando Sequera: an example of hybrid scheduling models.
Orlando Sequera: The project manager is going to work on planning high-level project faces a
Orlando Sequera: like we do with traditional. But then the scrum master is going to run sprints using agile processes that can happen that can coexist at the same time.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, there's not really a set hybrid scheduling model like it is like.
Orlando Sequera: like, at least for predictive or agile. You can combine. You can combine aspects of predictive, and add an agile
Orlando Sequera: it that fit the project the best way possible. You can combine that a a very common way of doing this is
high level planning
Orlando Sequera: in predictive methods with agile execution processes. Okay, that's what we actually did in the Artemis program at a high level. We had faces and masters.
Orlando Sequera: Remember that the item is program we were working. It's basically
Orlando Sequera: 3 programs working together. We have
Orlando Sequera: that will probably allow to to explain this hybrid scheduling model.
Orlando Sequera: We have it's basically 3 programs working together in the arms program. You have a some.
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: government contractors developing. They they rocket the Artemis.
Orlando Sequera: The actual.
Orlando Sequera: A RAM is rocket.
Orlando Sequera: and they were working
Orlando Sequera: mainly for the rocket. You have.
Orlando Sequera: It was Boing. It is going working that the principal contractor working on developing the the actual rocket and working with other subcontracting companies and working with some units of NASA. So
Orlando Sequera: then we had another important aspect of the program, which is the spacecraft, Orion, the Orion spacecraft.
Orlando Sequera: That is mainly
Orlando Sequera: it. We have a mainly at the contracting company. We we have a big contracting company that is in charge of a working with for some reason, and for giving the name they but it's not going. It's a different company that is working with their main tasks is
Orlando Sequera: to develop that
Orlando Sequera: Orion spacecraft.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: so those are 2 big components, right? But then the third one is
Orlando Sequera: all their they the the space, the spacecraft Airport, or
Orlando Sequera: a that NASA Canada Space Center
Orlando Sequera: that is, imagine the best way to to understand is like at least like an airport for for rockets. That's what it is, and that's where the processing happens, and that's where a everything is going to be. A everything is going to be put together. They're bracket.
Orlando Sequera: the actual spacecraft and the payload that is going to be in that in that rocket, right? That's pretty much at a very high level. How it works. So you have 3 different programs working with multiple contracting companies, and, of course, multiple levels of government
Orlando Sequera: that are coordinated by multiple a department a within NASA. Okay. So it's a it's a major endeavor. So
Orlando Sequera: at the high level, the actual, the planning
Orlando Sequera: that he started a high level to make sure that we are all coordinated with each other. He's done using a predictive approach that is done at a following a predictive approach. We have milestones that we have to hit. So
Orlando Sequera: program ABC we are hitting the same milestones. We have a master schedule
Orlando Sequera: with milestones that we all have to hip, and we are.
Orlando Sequera: There are dependencies that need to be
Orlando Sequera: that that need to be completed, and we use that and a predictive approach to address that. But when it comes to development, and that's where a my project, for example, working with a ground flight application software G fast developing that for processing a the spacecraft mainly, and the Artemis rocket as well.
Orlando Sequera: and that integration happened a
Orlando Sequera: that was done using an agile approach
Orlando Sequera: that was not using an agile approach, so that flexibility. That's what we mean by hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: That's what we mean by habit. So at the high level we did it, using a predictive approach. But at the development level or software development in this specific case and many other areas there were there. There were some other areas.
Orlando Sequera: If for those who were developing the software that was used by the
Orlando Sequera: by the Orion spacecraft. For example, they were following an agile approach as well, because they had to replicate conditions in outer space, using very complex simulators and using
Orlando Sequera: to replicate as much as possible it what will be the impact on the spacecraft when it was when when it gets exposed to these temperatures and these pressures, etc. A. What would be the behavior? So to to make adjustments, so for that they use
Orlando Sequera: prototype, they use an agile approach. But then again, we all came together under the same umbrella of following, For that integration it was easier to use predictive approach, so they can coexist if they is, is basically is perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: I know that some of you might. We're asking about hybrid. How so? It's basically looking at both aspects. We have covered them, but it's when you use both approaches together it is possible to use it in a project in the same project. It's perfectly fine. If that's what's gonna do the work. If that's what's gonna
Orlando Sequera: be the best fit. By all means you can do it. Okay, it's perfectly fine. It's going to allow you to be more a efficient. Okay. So it's perfectly fine.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: We have gone over this schedule.
Orlando Sequera: and we went over the predictive approach versus the elective approach. We went over the project tasks.
Orlando Sequera: We understand what our milestone is dependencies, and we talked about user story points. That's what we use to estimate
Orlando Sequera: the level of effort in agile.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about benchmarking and historical data, and how
Orlando Sequera: to prepare the schedule based on the methodology.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're going to start talking about resources.
Orlando Sequera: But before that i'm going to.
Orlando Sequera: I'm gonna take a look at the questions that we have in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: To make sure that they get addressed before
Orlando Sequera: we continue.
Orlando Sequera: Remember to vote on the questions. And those are the ones that are going to
Orlando Sequera: a get answered first.
Orlando Sequera: There's a question. If you not if you do not use percentage, a progress in agile.
Orlando Sequera: how do you? As a project manager. Determine that the correct team is ahead
Orlando Sequera: on or behind a meeting the Spring Release Date. Great question.
Orlando Sequera: Can you use earn value management in agile. Yes, so yes, you can use earn value management in agile. But you are going. What you're going to compare is.
Orlando Sequera: remember that in spring planning the team is gonna make a commitment to the liver.
Orlando Sequera: An X amount of user stories
Orlando Sequera: so.
Orlando Sequera: and value management is basically comparing actuals.
Orlando Sequera: What was done to what we planned for. You can do that. Imagine, too, but what you're gonna compare in this case is okay. You said that you were gonna complete 30 user story points, but you only completed 20
Orlando Sequera: user story points.
Orlando Sequera: so that definitely you can you can perform. You can measure progress. That's how you do it. But there's no percentage of completion. Imagine, but you can still make your progress, and you use other tools like burn down charts and burn up charts that also can help you to measure progress. So a
Orlando Sequera: you still you are still able to measure progress in agile.
Orlando Sequera: You can still use earn value management, but it is a little bit different. But you put in Nigel. There's no percentage of completion.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so great great question.
Orlando Sequera: When this slide says, measure effort, not time. What is the You know what? We'd refrain. Focus on duration. And you're going to be fine. But when he says, measure effort, that is for adjun. Okay, measure effort. Not time. That is specifically for agile. What is the unit of measure
Orlando Sequera: and user-story points or t-shirt sizes, for example. So that is the answer to
Orlando Sequera: that is the answer to the question.
Orlando Sequera: right?
Orlando Sequera: Is there an example of a D or checklist definition already? So
Orlando Sequera: that's the other thing? Create the
Orlando Sequera: they? Yes, this the definition of ready checklist is created by the team. It's gonna change from project to project. But the team is gonna tell you this is what we need
Orlando Sequera: to complete the project. They the iteration work. This is what this is what we need in order to complete that work.
Orlando Sequera: So it is created by the team, and it's going to change from a project to project and also from iteration to iteration.
Orlando Sequera: So yeah, that's created by the team specific to that particular iteration.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A question regarding flow calculation. Understand how to calculate early Star nearly finish how you determine. If there is an air early star.
Orlando Sequera: and we start early. Finish.
Orlando Sequera: Do you have to perform? But forward, pass, and backward past to calculate
Orlando Sequera: at least totally finish
Orlando Sequera: or pass
Orlando Sequera: late. Startly. Finish is
Orlando Sequera: backward pass.
Orlando Sequera: What, again
Orlando Sequera: A. By recommendation is you're going to do a deeper dive. They are videos in per sepio. You can watch them, and that can help you
Orlando Sequera: to learn a little bit to do a deeper dive.
Orlando Sequera: But for the exam most of the questions are not. They're They're not gonna that's not what they're looking for. For this version of the Pmp extent. There's a reason why we didn't do a deeper dive from that.
Orlando Sequera: That's why
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: it's a definition of Don't created by devops and use, but not definition of done is created by the team a.
Orlando Sequera: E. But you have to get your stakeholders in on the same page. Everyone has to be on the same page. The team, the product owner, your stakeholders. Everyone has to be on the same page when it comes to the definition of that. But it's not created by other people. It's created by the team in collaboration
Orlando Sequera: with stakeholders product owner.
Orlando Sequera: A, and everybody has to have the same definition of done otherwise. It's going to be a disaster.
Orlando Sequera: How can you measure
Orlando Sequera: team velocity by
Orlando Sequera: calculating how many user story points have they been able to complete?
Orlando Sequera: That's how you measure that.
Orlando Sequera: It could be 30 story user story points or 40 user story points in the next screen or 15 in the next print.
Orlando Sequera: That's how you and then the
Orlando Sequera: it's based. That's basically how you do it? It's about how quickly can they finish when they complete user store points.
right?
Orlando Sequera: And could you please speak to Iteration H on on slide 77 this is just a
Orlando Sequera: It's just a spring cycle where we're the point of released. Yes, it's a group of iterations that we are deploying
Orlando Sequera: that we are using to deploy
Orlando Sequera: to release into production. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: who creates a definition of
Orlando Sequera: Don? I may. I already answered that that is the team in collaboration with stakeholders and the
Orlando Sequera: we all they all need to be on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: Can definition already, and definition of Don't be quantified, not quantified? They need to be
Orlando Sequera: clearly define. They are items on a checklist.
Orlando Sequera: That's what they are, and we need to be on the same page with everyone as I mentioned
Orlando Sequera: not Toronto.
Orlando Sequera: Another question is there an acceptable reason for a blown, busted timeline and a for a project. I
Orlando Sequera: don't understand, really the context of the question. You would have to elaborate more, but you would do this planning
Orlando Sequera: to avoid disasters.
Orlando Sequera: Another question
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: My apologies i'm trying to find
Orlando Sequera: the story points
Orlando Sequera: ever get related to or assigned to a crew and respect the duration. No, no, no, that's a bad practice story. Point is just about the level of effort. The level of complexity. It's about the level of complexity. They shouldn't be tied up to duration they shouldn't be.
Orlando Sequera: I know that some organizations try to get sneaky about it. But no, it has not, it should should have nothing to do with duration.
Orlando Sequera: It's just about complexity. How complex.
Orlando Sequera: how complex it is!
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: Let's continue. And
Orlando Sequera: Actually, we're getting close to
Orlando Sequera: our.
Orlando Sequera: We're getting awfully close to our break.
Orlando Sequera: Let's take a 10 min break and we'll be back. We're gonna continue
Orlando Sequera: it with a confidence. I'm, we're going to.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna talk about resources right? So
Orlando Sequera: take a 10 min break and we will be right back.
Orlando Sequera: All right. Welcome back
Orlando Sequera: my apologies.
Orlando Sequera: We're going to continue with our
Orlando Sequera: us.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: 2 more topics to go over. So we're going to talk about resources now. So we have talked about scope. We have talked about
Orlando Sequera: schedule.
Orlando Sequera: Now we're going to talk about resources.
Orlando Sequera: As we have said.
Orlando Sequera: we need resources to complete those project activities, but when it comes to resources it's not only about
Orlando Sequera: human resources, right? It's not just the people that
Orlando Sequera: it's needed to complete project activities. We're talking also about
Orlando Sequera: equipment.
Orlando Sequera: We're talking also about materials, and we're also talking about supplies.
Orlando Sequera: That is.
Orlando Sequera: it's really important
Orlando Sequera: to keep in mind. So we're talking a little bit more about than just
Orlando Sequera: human resources. Okay, so this is another area. This is another area that we have to make sure
Orlando Sequera: that we're covering for our project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, so we're still in planning. We're we're working. We're doing our our planning efforts. And this is another important area, an area of our project, because without research set the pro without people and without equipment, materials and supplies.
Orlando Sequera: We're not going to be able to do anything with our project, so we need to
Orlando Sequera: spend the time and start with our plan for this resources
Orlando Sequera: in defining.
Orlando Sequera: How can we identify the type of resources that we need?
Orlando Sequera: How are we going to do that?
Orlando Sequera: The people and the materials and equipment and supplies? How are we going to acquire these resources?
Orlando Sequera: Are they going to be assigned within the organization. Do we have to go outside of the organization?
Orlando Sequera: How's that going to be done? That's going to be answered by the plan.
Orlando Sequera: and we need to also understand the roles and responsibilities
Orlando Sequera: of the people that are, be. They are going to be working in those project activities. The role is the function
Orlando Sequera: in the project. We also need to know the authority, what are the rights that they have to use resources to make decisions and accept the Liberals
Orlando Sequera: the responsibility
Orlando Sequera: that is, the assigned duty and competencies and skill set that is needed to
Orlando Sequera: perform the work. All of that's going to be defined in the resource management plan. Again, the rules of engagement, the rules that we have to follow when it comes to our resources.
Orlando Sequera: We need to have a project organizational chart
Orlando Sequera: that shows reporting relationships that is very helpful.
Orlando Sequera: Also, we need to take into account a resource management how we're going to select those resources, how we're going to manage those resources. How we're going to release those resources. Because, remember, projects have a definite beginning, and they also have a definite end. So
Orlando Sequera: not all. Not every single team member is gonna be it's gonna be part of the team for the entire duration of the project. Some of them are gonna come at a specific time. When they complete their productivity, they're going to be released. They're going to be adjourn, as we saw with the talkman ladder stage. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another important aspect that we have to take into consideration when it comes to resource management planning is training.
Orlando Sequera: In most cases we're not gonna have all this skill set available there. We might need some training that happens a lot, but we are under
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: We're going to be a under the actual
Orlando Sequera: We we're gonna be in the business of developing people of training people. So we have. We have to work
Orlando Sequera: we have to work with our stakeholders to with internal stakeholders in this case, with our team members to develop them. Okay, to help to develop that skill set as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: But we need to figure out the best strategy for that, and also take into account that that
Orlando Sequera: that training is gonna cost money. So it's gonna have an impact on our project budget, and it's also gonna have an impact on our scheduled it's gonna take time. So we have to take those impacts into consideration.
Orlando Sequera: Also, the team development methods. We're going to be able to figure out a way to work together. And how are we going to control those resources. Research, recognition.
Orlando Sequera: The the research recognition plan. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: All right.
Orlando Sequera: If we are using a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: And you see the symbol here.
Orlando Sequera: the project manager is going to identify the required team resources, and then
Orlando Sequera: they're going to be assigned to the different project activities, right?
Orlando Sequera: It is important to identify the right resources to perform
Orlando Sequera: the work. This is based on experience. Does the team member have the relevant experience to perform the work?
Orlando Sequera: Do they have the knowledge
Orlando Sequera: they have information about customer needs
Orlando Sequera: and prior similar product implementations
Orlando Sequera: Do they have the relevant skill set that is needed?
Orlando Sequera: Is the team member able to work well with others the same? Do they have the actual do they have the
Orlando Sequera: Can they work? Well, we're well with other people, so that is very important, because we're going to be working under a team setting.
Orlando Sequera: So that's how it gets done
Orlando Sequera: in
Orlando Sequera: if we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: the responsibilities are going to be tailored, based on the team and the needs of the project, and you'll take into account, As I mentioned before, not only the skill set the technical knowledge, but also the actual soft skills like being
Orlando Sequera: able to work with other people being able to work with people in in in in a team that is diverse, and people that you have in multiple in multiple locations. Right? So that is something that needs to be taken into account
Orlando Sequera: one
Orlando Sequera: tool that we use
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to resources.
Orlando Sequera: and that is really helpful
Orlando Sequera: in understanding. When are these resources available? Because remember what we said
Orlando Sequera: on day one re projects and operations. They have differences, but they have one common element.
Orlando Sequera: They have many, but one of those common elements is
Orlando Sequera: resources.
Orlando Sequera: organizations. They don't have separate resources for projects and separate resources for the daily operations. No, it's the same resources. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: The same resources that are going to be working on project work, and they're also going to be working on
Orlando Sequera: a project work. So that
Orlando Sequera: means that there is a coordination that needs to happen for
Orlando Sequera: those for those resources. And remember what we said before about this structure, the organization with structures they are.
Orlando Sequera: Chances are that our level of a 30 go. It's going to be
Orlando Sequera: medium to low. In most cases it's going to be low. I would even venture to say that as Project manager studies, so that means that the resources are going to be reporting to a functional manager. So we have to coordinate
Orlando Sequera: this resource availability, and remember
Orlando Sequera: that your project is not the only project that these resources are going to be working on, or it's not the only project that is going to need a a particular piece of equipment or a specific type of material. You have multiple competing projects
Orlando Sequera: that are competing for the same resources. So this is key. This is one way that will allow you to make sure that the resources that you need
Orlando Sequera: are available when you need them. So you use resource calendars for that
Orlando Sequera: for for for that particular coordination. It's going to allow you to understand resource, availability
Orlando Sequera: of people, equipment material supplies during a specific point. So when you start your planning efforts, and you are adding resources to your project tasks or activities in your schedule. You're not adding people that are that are unavailable
Orlando Sequera: that are a overloaded with work over allocated, or that are not, They are out of due to They they their own vacation, or they're out on a on sick leave, etc. So you have to use this resource calendars
Orlando Sequera: to
Orlando Sequera: coordinate that resource allocation for your project to understand and to prefer
Orlando Sequera: okay, keeping those constraints and limitations that I mentioned before. They all the project work and operational work.
Orlando Sequera: One tool that I mentioned that is really important when it comes to
Orlando Sequera: who's gonna be working on what? When it comes to the resources when it comes to the team.
Orlando Sequera: This is
Orlando Sequera: a very important tool that is going to help you to understand
Orlando Sequera: a who's going to be working on a specific task? Who's going to be responsible
Orlando Sequera: for a completing a specific
Orlando Sequera: activity, productivity, or task in the project.
Orlando Sequera: That is the racing matrix
Orlando Sequera: race. It comes from responsible, accountable, consult, and inform.
Orlando Sequera: Racing matrix is
Orlando Sequera: key. It is important. It's going to keep everyone on the same page.
Orlando Sequera: It's gonna
Orlando Sequera: properly it Define who's responsible for completing a task, as I just mentioned. Also, who has to make sure that those tasks
Orlando Sequera: get done
Orlando Sequera: accountable.
Orlando Sequera: 2 different things accountable is the individual that has to make sure that the task gets done. Okay, that's accountable. But it's not necessarily the same individual that is going to be doing it.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: that is the responsible party, the responsible they got to do it accountable has to make sure that the task gets done or completed, then consult. In some cases
Orlando Sequera: the
Orlando Sequera: you need to consult some other people, Some stakeholders outside of the team ask some questions.
Orlando Sequera: but a They're not they. They're not going to be mandated. It's not mandatory to have a consult or individual to consult an individual for each specific task. Not every task needs to consult a particular individual, but every task needs
Orlando Sequera: to have someone accountable, and every task needs to have at least one responsible person. They need to get done right. And then in form, we have some stakeholders that need to be informed.
Orlando Sequera: but especially about project progress, because they might have an impact, but they don't need detailed information. So that is what the racy matrix is. And by the way, the racing matrix is a
Orlando Sequera: it. It's an evolution of what they call the responsibility assignment matrix the RAM. This is a flavor of a RAM, and
Orlando Sequera: it is so important that the racing matrix is one of the ways that one of the tools that you can use to even prevent conflict in your team setting in conflict within people in your project team because one of the most common, Causes of conflict is
Orlando Sequera: lack of clarity when it comes to the roles. Lack of clarity when it comes to who's responsible for doing a project? Tasks
Orlando Sequera: that can be addressed by using a racing matrix. This is important. Okay, remember this for the exempt
Orlando Sequera: a little bit of a quiz here. So
Orlando Sequera: which of these are
Orlando Sequera: through?
Orlando Sequera: And i'm going to? I'm past the chat
Orlando Sequera: briefly. And which of this do you think are true. You can choose multiple, not just one. You can choose multiple which ones out of these 4 are.
Orlando Sequera: And I see that most of you are same.
Orlando Sequera: 1, 3, M. 4,
Orlando Sequera: and that is correct.
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to post the chat now.
Orlando Sequera: So Team self organized to distribute work, and this is about adaptive right about that. That is true.
Orlando Sequera: and that tip teams never have a leader. No, they do have a leader.
Orlando Sequera: And who is the leader?
Orlando Sequera: I'm going to unpause the chat.
Orlando Sequera: Who is the leader?
Orlando Sequera: It could be the Pm. Or the scrum master, so both answers are correct. It could be either a Pm. Or it could be
Orlando Sequera: a as chrome master. So yes, that is correct.
Orlando Sequera: not the product owner. I'm gonna i'm gonna post the chat now, not the programmer. The procure, remember, is in charge of the scope. It's in charge of the pro backl so, but it's not the leader of the team. So the scrum master or project manager. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: all right. So great job guys.
Orlando Sequera: they great on that question.
Orlando Sequera: Now.
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to resources we are going. We we mentioned something, we not always we. We're not always gonna have
Orlando Sequera: the resources that we need to do our project work depending on the complexity of the tasks
Orlando Sequera: that's gonna happen in some situations. We're gonna face some situations in which it's not going to be possible it wouldn't. We don't have internally the resources
Orlando Sequera: we don't have the the skill set needed. We don't have
Orlando Sequera: the actual
Orlando Sequera: piece of equipment. Maybe we need a specialized
Orlando Sequera: type of machine, or that that we don't currently have. So what do we do in that situation? So
Orlando Sequera: in those situations? Or we might have the resources that we need, but they are over allocated, they simply not available in the next 4, 5 months. What do we do in those situations? So, in order to
Orlando Sequera: address those situations, we do.
Orlando Sequera: We can do a make, or by analysis, so we can make the best situation. Remember the project management. One key aspect of project management is to be able to
Orlando Sequera: a make decisions, make the best decisions. It's about decision making. That's a key aspect of project management. Sometimes it's going to be better to do it in house. That's what we call make. Make is doing it in house with internal resources.
Orlando Sequera: or sometimes it's going to be better to buy it or procure it, get it from a third party. So that is a that's what we mean by external sourcing.
Orlando Sequera: and we perform this type of analysis maker by analysis to make the best decision for the project.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, what we got to take into account a few considerations, hey? If we if we think about a hire, an external consultants that can help us with project work. What's going to be the impact on the cost of our project impact on the budget.
Orlando Sequera: The impact on the time, Impact on the schedule an impact on the quality right? So we need to take that into account. Is this gonna be something that we're gonna be needing in an ongoing basis? Or is it a one time deal?
Orlando Sequera: We have to ask that question as well. How steep is the learning curve for someone internally to learn that skills it. If it's something that is going to take years to learn, or if it's something that can be relatively, they can learn relatively in a short amount of time.
Orlando Sequera: So we're gonna take that into account as well. Do we have the require resources available within the organization.
Orlando Sequera: Yes, no, if no. What do we do? And we'll outsourcing? Allow the team to focus on what they need to focus on you. That is another consideration. Maybe some we outsource
Orlando Sequera: to external resources, some of the
Orlando Sequera: functionary that needs to be built, but then we can that will keep free of the team to focus on a
Orlando Sequera: on delivering a and delivering the important functionality for the project. So we need to take that into account. We gotta look at it from multiple a
Orlando Sequera: angles multiple variables. Of course this is not something that is going to be answered directly by the project man by the project manager it it himself or herself they need to.
Orlando Sequera: We we need to take into account a key stakeholders, the sponsor, of course, the team members, and look at all that information. But this is another way that we have in order to fill your resources. needs.
Orlando Sequera: Okay.
Orlando Sequera: Another important area of our project that is also tied up that has considerations, and it's in it. It has the impact on
Orlando Sequera: every other area of our project is procurement.
Orlando Sequera: Once we perform that maker by analysis, we determine. Is it better to do it in-house, or is it better to go outside the organization and work with a third-party organization?
Orlando Sequera: We have.
Orlando Sequera: If we decide to acquire
Orlando Sequera: the product service of result, what we need or the resources from outside the organization, we need to have in place a procurement strategy.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that is important.
Orlando Sequera: It. This is where
Orlando Sequera: procurement strategy is gonna cover the contract types that we're going to be using. That needs to be defined in a contract is a legally binding agreement, by the way, that has obligations for both parties.
Orlando Sequera: and a we need to take into account any we need. This is why we review opa's, because we need to understand also any policies, any guidelines, any a.
Orlando Sequera: and any particular best practices that we have to follow when it comes to procurement for those that have work with the Federal Government, Federal acquisition and regulation guidelines right the far that has to be followed by any organization that is in business, doing business
Orlando Sequera: with the Federal Government. They're subject to far regulations, right? So the same principle here.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: you have to plan mainly for
Orlando Sequera: these 4 areas. These prerequisite opas need to understand it's already.
Orlando Sequera: Chances are that your organization already has a procurement strategy. For example, a Government contract Federal Government contractors already have their far a in place, their procurement strategy in place. So you need to work within those 2
Orlando Sequera: follow those opa and opa. Remember organizational process assets. Right? Then you also need to a understand the acquisition method. How can you?
Orlando Sequera: Can you contact a vendor directly, or do you have to go through a bidding process? That's what we mean by acquisition method. And then you get a check with your
Orlando Sequera: a procurement department and follow the procurement strategy that is already in place and take into account your a
Orlando Sequera: You procurement
Orlando Sequera: strategy for that situation, and
Orlando Sequera: also the contract types.
Orlando Sequera: You can provide suggestions
Orlando Sequera: to your procurement department on the best contract types. But this has the You're going to be working with mainly with 2 departments in this specific area. You're going to be working with the purchasing department or procurement department.
Orlando Sequera: And you're also going to be working with the legal department.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we don't work in a vacuum.
Orlando Sequera: Your project manager.
Orlando Sequera: You're not. The chances are that you're not a legal expert, and you're not a procurement expert. We have to work with other departments.
Orlando Sequera: this specific area of procurement. You work with the procurement Department, and you're also working with the legal department. They're the ones that are going to be drafting the the contracts. They're the legal experts. So you have to work with them. You can provide some suggestions, but ultimately
Orlando Sequera: they're the ones that are going to be drafting the contracts. Okay, and you also have your procurement faces. Typically, when you engage a vendor
Orlando Sequera: regardless of the the the process for that or the acquisition method. You're gonna work with them through the fulfillment of a contract. A legally binding
Orlando Sequera: agreement between the 2 parties. Okay, and closure is going to be the end of the process, and there is going to be a closer
Orlando Sequera: procedure for
Orlando Sequera: for that, for closing that procurement.
Orlando Sequera: a you work with organization finance, as we say here
Orlando Sequera: in many cases you're going to be able to work with pre pre-approved vendors because organizations they event other organizations, and they make them part. They have at least of
Orlando Sequera: pre-approved vendors in in place that you can review and that's that's going to facilitate the process because they have been already vetted.
Orlando Sequera: Also a
Orlando Sequera: do. In many cases you're gonna have to go through a bidding process, meaning that you have to reach out to potential vendors with a procurement. What you're trying to procure, give them the chance to come up with biddings and
Orlando Sequera: have big vendor conferences, address their questions and then go through an entire process to select the best option that happens with different levels of government all the time they go through a bidding process.
Orlando Sequera: You can you can. You also have to define
Orlando Sequera: the escalation procedures. Whenever
Orlando Sequera: changes in significant changes to these contracts are going to be implemented, there has to be an escalation procedure, and then
Orlando Sequera: you should
Orlando Sequera: pay the contracts. What? As per the contract, as
Orlando Sequera: the payments shouldn't be made at the end of the project, necessarily they should be made when it based on the contract terms. Okay, do you have to follow that if your contract
Orlando Sequera: a with a vendor says that you have to pay them when they complete a particular, they hit a particular master, then do it. At that time you don't have to wait until the entire project is completed, otherwise will be a violation of that particular contract.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, but that has to be defined. That's what we need to have
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: procurement management plan in place, this procurement management plan. These are the rules that we're going to have in place for procurement. It's going to cover. What type of contract that we're going to be using? What are the process for evaluating bits?
Orlando Sequera: What are the standard procurement documents.
Orlando Sequera: documents that we're going to be using? And how are we going to manage our
Orlando Sequera: vendors or providers? Okay, you're going to be working with
Orlando Sequera: the procurement department of your organization, and i'm gonna add that you're gonna also gonna be working with the legal department of your organization when it comes to procurement. So at least 2 departments that you're working with procurement and
Orlando Sequera: legal all right
Orlando Sequera: also.
Orlando Sequera: These are some examples of procurement. The
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: a statement of work
Orlando Sequera: that is a formal document that describes the require goods or services that you are trying to procure with enough detail
Orlando Sequera: that is going to allow prospective vendors or sellers or providers to determine whether they can provide
Orlando Sequera: what you're trying to procure or not.
Orlando Sequera: they should be sent to all the potential vendors so they can then evaluate their capabilities.
Orlando Sequera: This is also a basis to develop the procurement documentation during solicitation and should be created from this the project scope baseline.
Orlando Sequera: right? We use the process of baseline as an input in order to create your statement of work.
Orlando Sequera: A. But additionally my apologies.
Here we go.
Orlando Sequera: Additionally. You can have
Orlando Sequera: what is called an Rfq. Which is a request for quotation, so they can submit. Quote
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: This document has multiple names. It can call it can be called a bit or tender, or quote.
Orlando Sequera: They do not
Orlando Sequera: constitute an agreement, but they allow the buyer to
Orlando Sequera: determine whether a which response is going to be a made, the request that needs
Orlando Sequera: you can also use what is called an ifb, which is a invitation for bit, and this is where they buyer
Orlando Sequera: request themselves. The buyer itself request They show expression of interest in working with you. A. and, by the way.
Orlando Sequera: one thing that I forgot to mention is that when it comes to procurement you are the buying organization. You have to look at it from that perspective. You are the buying organization, and you are
Orlando Sequera: for curing. The vendors are the third-party organization. So you gotta look at it from that perspective. You are the buyer. They are the vendor.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And then you also have other type of procurement documentation.
Orlando Sequera: a request Rfps
Orlando Sequera: that is commonly used a. And also in some other industries. They use expression of interest. I'm. Honestly most familiar with statement of work, and
Orlando Sequera: Rfqs and R Ofps
Orlando Sequera: request for proposal. Okay, but these are some examples of a
Orlando Sequera: procurement documentation.
Orlando Sequera: One way to attract a top talent is to ask vendors to complete the work.
Orlando Sequera: Once once you've been able to give them a clear understanding of the procurement requirements
Orlando Sequera: A. And the terms and conditions the beaters can prepare a competitive bit to provide the service. That's what happens with government contracts all the time with not only NASA, but other feather
Orlando Sequera: for the government agencies like NASA, they and that happens at multiple levels of covering. I'm sure is the same in your prospective countries.
Orlando Sequera: but that's pretty much how it gets done. So they go through all these.
Orlando Sequera: They go through these
Orlando Sequera: through these processes, and these allows organizations to that are publicly funded or highly regulated use form of processes to procure goods and services like the ones that are working with different levels of government.
Orlando Sequera: this really helps.
Orlando Sequera: and or, as I said, with organizations, they're working in. Industries are highly regulated, like, for example, airspace.
Orlando Sequera: Or if the project needs
Orlando Sequera: specialist work, they want to find the best quality available.
Orlando Sequera: They use these Rfp and bitter conferences as a formal process to make sure that all the prospective vendors have a clear understanding of the procurement. But again, you work closely with the procurement department.
Orlando Sequera: You also have to have a criteria in place to select those possible vendors or those possible
Orlando Sequera: those possible
Orlando Sequera: sellers. You gotta have a criteria. What are you going to evaluate them? A. What is the criteria you're going to use to evaluate those possible vendors. That's what we mean by source, selection, criteria.
Orlando Sequera: These are some examples. Not necessarily. These are the most common ones. So
Orlando Sequera: what we're going to evaluate them, based on their understanding of the need. Where we're trying to procure
Orlando Sequera: technical capability. What is the warranty that they offer? What is their financial capacity? Do they have any proprietary rights or intellectual property, right?
Orlando Sequera: Past performance as sellers.
Orlando Sequera: business size and type.
Orlando Sequera: a production, capacity and interest management approach technical approach, etc. So that is a criteria that you're going to use to select your vendors
Orlando Sequera: Once you
Orlando Sequera: once they are selected.
Orlando Sequera: they they become.
Orlando Sequera: we call a qualified vendor.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, but
Orlando Sequera: most organizations they have at least the pre-approved vendors, and they are also qualified. And this is something that we have to a to review first to look over the list of quality pre-approved vendors or qualify vendors.
Orlando Sequera: They work with the organization in the past.
Orlando Sequera: and they organizations procurement departments
Orlando Sequera: they like to use qualified vendors because their their accounts are already set up. That process is already in place, so they don't have to go through this vetting process that a new organization or a new vendor has to go through so ideally they will like to go through
Orlando Sequera: using qualified vendors as much as possible.
Orlando Sequera: Then
Orlando Sequera: the contracts.
Orlando Sequera: Here we're going to be working.
Orlando Sequera: We need legally binding agreements to work with our
Orlando Sequera: A with our vendors right to a country legally binding document that
Orlando Sequera: obligates both parties to meet the terms that are specified in that contract. We work with the legal department. We're not going to be drafting this contract on our own. Okay, that's not how it gets done. You're going to be working with procurement and you're also going to be working with the legal department. Okay,
Orlando Sequera: Right now, it is important that the type of contract that you negotiate with a seller can influence the tone and the reality of that good relationship.
Orlando Sequera: Ideally, this contract should be negotiated in good faith
Orlando Sequera: towards creating a positive working relationship.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, that is crucial.
Orlando Sequera: the contracts are going to legalize those working agreements with this third-party organization. They're going to give this structure
Orlando Sequera: to those working relationships.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to help us in furthering collaboration. They're going to take it is important to take into account the risks associated with the different contract types which we're going to cover briefly in in a minute.
Orlando Sequera: And the goal is to deliver benefits to the buyer. That will be you. Your You're representing the buy an organization, and they can be tailored
Orlando Sequera: for the partnership, and this is pretty much the life cycle of a contract. So you you understand with
Orlando Sequera: they understand, you understand, with the termination, the determination of the need.
Orlando Sequera: then the request.
Orlando Sequera: then the proposal is put together, and finally the contract is put together.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to contracts
Orlando Sequera: we have mainly 3 types.
Orlando Sequera: The first one is.
Orlando Sequera: we're going to start with costs reversible
Orlando Sequera: in cost-reversible contracts. That is a contract in which
Orlando Sequera: the seller is gonna be. Remember, the seller is the third party you are the buyer. The seller is going to be reimburse for all the cost to loss
Orlando Sequera: a fee, and that fee is usually going to be the profit. So they're going to be reverse for all the eliable costs
Orlando Sequera: and all those
Orlando Sequera: costs are going to be specified in the contract.
Orlando Sequera: And then.
Orlando Sequera: on top of that they're gonna get a fee. That's what we mean by cost reversible.
Orlando Sequera: This works well for situations in which we're working with significant scope changes.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: and coast reimbursement has 3 flavors.
Orlando Sequera: We have
Orlando Sequera: what we call cost for a fixed fee.
Orlando Sequera: That's where the seller is reimbursed for all the allowable costs
Orlando Sequera: plus a fee.
Orlando Sequera: and this fee doesn't change unless the scope of the work changes. Okay, the fee is going to be the same.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to get.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to be
Orlando Sequera: for their cost, and then they're going to be They fee they're going to get a a specific feed that's not going to change unless discover the work changes.
Orlando Sequera: The next one is what we call cost plus incentive fee.
Orlando Sequera: Here is where
Orlando Sequera: the sailor is going to be reversed for all the cost.
Orlando Sequera: what
Orlando Sequera: they are going to get
Orlando Sequera: a an incentive if they hit performance objectives. So.
Orlando Sequera: for example, if the costs are less or greater than the originally estimated cost. They can get
Orlando Sequera: They can get a performance inceptive. They can get an additional fee.
Orlando Sequera: or, if they need or exceed, for example, they they they deliver early, and this delivering early is going to be specified in the contract. Right? They're going to get an incentive fee on top of the fee that they were that they were originally going to to receive.
Orlando Sequera: or, if they exceed, a quality, objectives, a lower number of defects compared to what was specified in the contract. For example, if they meet those that that criteria that is very well specified in the contract, they can get an incentive on top of their
Orlando Sequera: the fee that we're going to get for their profit.
Orlando Sequera: and the last one is cost, plus a worthy.
Orlando Sequera: and this is widely used in the in the government sectors. The sellers are going to be reimbursed for all their costs, but then
Orlando Sequera: they are going to get an award based on subjective performance criteria. The government loves to using this type of contract.
Orlando Sequera: If they go above and beyond, for example, it's a little bit more specific than that. But if they.
Orlando Sequera: if if they made if they did a great job, something along those lines, something that is the subjective of what do you mean going up over and beyond what you mean by if they meet all, if they went above and beyond, if they achieve a high level of satisfaction with a customer. So it's really more subjective.
Orlando Sequera: But
Orlando Sequera: a it is one type of contract the government. They like to use a lot of cost, plus a worthy.
Orlando Sequera: So organizations that are working in. For example, in the other Miss program. That's the type of contract that they sign with NASA. Normally it's right, and it's very subjective, and he's. They buy an organization. They're the ones that the that
Orlando Sequera: create that criteria. So that is one type.
Orlando Sequera: Then we also have another type of contract that is called
Orlando Sequera: Fixed price
Orlando Sequera: Fixed price.
Orlando Sequera: This works really well for situations in which
Orlando Sequera: the scope is well-defined.
Orlando Sequera: This is widely used in construction.
Orlando Sequera: This copies, well understood, well-defined, and no significant changes are expected. Your best bet to go with a fixed price type of contract.
Orlando Sequera: They, the we have
Orlando Sequera: 3 flavors
Orlando Sequera: for fixed price. The first one is firm, fixed price.
Orlando Sequera: The prices of of the goods are going to be set at the beginning, and
Orlando Sequera: that's not going to change unless the scope changes. It's a fixed price. This is what we're going to pay for that, and it's not going to change unless the scope changes
Orlando Sequera: fixed price with incentive fee
Orlando Sequera: that gave.
Orlando Sequera: They buy on the center a little bit of flexibility, and he takes into account some deviation from performance, and he said, Surprise, ceiling. But if there are changes in the costs.
Orlando Sequera: and they set a price sailing, and anything beyond that is going to be charged to the seller, for here would they have a little bit more flexibility compared to the firm, fixed price, and then they have another type of contract, which is
Orlando Sequera: used in also in some even in some government, or in some long term company. Long term projects.
Orlando Sequera: for example, can spend 2025 years, 30 years, just to give an idea, and especially when they use commodities like oil. They use a fixed price with economic price adjustment to protect
Orlando Sequera: both the seller and the buyer from fluctuations in those commodities, for example, old prices. There's always a fluctuation that goes up, and it goes down so to to protect, and both the buyer and the seller the over time they a. This is widely used.
Orlando Sequera: They fixed price with the economic price adjustment
Orlando Sequera: pre up for vendors or Internet international payments. In many cases it's used in that fashion.
Orlando Sequera: Okay? And then the third type that we have is
Orlando Sequera: a hybrid.
Orlando Sequera: It's
Orlando Sequera: it's what we call a combination of the 2.
Orlando Sequera: It's a combination. It has
Orlando Sequera: aspects of fixed price, and it also has aspects of cost, reimbursement.
Orlando Sequera: The classic example to understand that time and materials contract is when we hire consultants or contractors to work on our project.
Orlando Sequera: That's the classic example. Why is that because in some cases we it has
Orlando Sequera: a fixed price
Orlando Sequera: aspect, because we're going to be able to set the hourly rate that we're going to pay to those contractors. Let's assume that it's $50 an hour or $80 an hour. But then the number of hours that we're gonna have to. That is a little bit more that that
Orlando Sequera: we we use a a cost reversible approach. It depends on how many hours we need them for. Okay, so that will be an example of time and materials. It's a combination of fixed price and time and materials
Orlando Sequera: for agile. We also have some contracts. We have
Orlando Sequera: a multiple types of contracts. We also have fixed price with increments.
Orlando Sequera: We have multi-tiered a multi-tier structure they provide flexibility in categorizing content in different documents.
Orlando Sequera: They emphasize value delivered the type of contract that's about incremental value and delivery milestones delivery. In mastons of face gates we have fixed price increments.
Orlando Sequera: They basically we break down the scope into smaller fixed price or budgeted pieces.
Orlando Sequera: We also have not to exceed time and material. That's a very common one in agile, in which we set a lead ceiling for both this the budget and the schedule
Orlando Sequera: A. We also have a graduated time and materials that shares the financial risk
Orlando Sequera: with the contracting organization. We also have an early cancellation option
Orlando Sequera: that enables a flexible to deliver a of scope using the definition of done.
Orlando Sequera: and we also have a dynamic scope option
Orlando Sequera: that gives the option to various scope and fund innovation as specific points. And we also have team augmentation that focuses on collaboration.
Orlando Sequera: A. To enable flexible scope
Orlando Sequera: so multiple aspects when it comes to agile contract types.
Orlando Sequera: and regardless of the approach, what are the components that we have with our contracts.
Orlando Sequera: The contracts are going to cover the description of the work. What are the deliberables that need to be
Orlando Sequera: produced by the contracting organization and the scope. It's going to have a delivery date and schedule information.
Orlando Sequera: It's going to identify the authority.
Orlando Sequera: Their responsibilities for both parties are going to be clearly specified in the contract.
Orlando Sequera: They're going to allow us to manage technical and business aspects.
Orlando Sequera: payment, information, payment, terms.
Orlando Sequera: probations for terminations of these contracts.
Orlando Sequera: any guarantees and warranties.
Orlando Sequera: intellectual property, considerations, security, confidentiality, and data privacy. That's commonly what we find in this
Orlando Sequera: a contract.
Orlando Sequera: and that takes us to a summary. This is what we have been covering, how it relates to the exam Content outline. We went over project resource requirements, and
Orlando Sequera: we talked about
Orlando Sequera: plan and managing procurement, including the final resource. Requirements communicate research requirements, managing suppliers and contracts.
Orlando Sequera: management of the procurement strategy and developing a delivery solution.
Orlando Sequera: And the next topic that we're going to be covering is
Orlando Sequera: budget. Now we're going to talk about budget.
Orlando Sequera: So we have our schedule. We went over our scope. We went over a scheduled. We went over our a procurement.
Orlando Sequera: We cover the contracts, the different types of contracts.
Orlando Sequera: We also talked about resources. And now we are going to talk about
Orlando Sequera: our budget. One of the major, One of the major constraints of any project, one of the important areas. So this is part of what is known as the triple constraint.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, this is where we're going to determine.
Orlando Sequera: The project project that is needed
Orlando Sequera: in order to complete project activities.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: You might be wondering. Are you going to be aligning the budget with the scope and scheduled requirements in a predicted life cycle? Yes, if you're following up to like cycle. That's exactly what you're going to be doing. Or are you going to be collaborating with partners and internal finance stakeholders to craft a suitable financial solution
Orlando Sequera: as the agile mindset proposes. The answer is, Yes, if you're following an agile approach.
Orlando Sequera: so it's a it's pretty much a combination of both when it comes to budget planning.
Orlando Sequera: It is
Orlando Sequera: important to take into account
Orlando Sequera: the cost and the value right?
Orlando Sequera: And also remember that organization of stakeholder attitudes. They change.
Orlando Sequera: They, what are what are their added to stores and budget and costs? You need to understand that's part of the organizational culture need to understand what is the driving factor. What is the most important constraint for the organization? Is it scheduled? It's a time, or is it cost it's a budget, or is it
Orlando Sequera: scope. So you need to understand that
Orlando Sequera: e when it comes to creating the budget.
Orlando Sequera: This has to be in accordance with the project life cycle.
Orlando Sequera: If we're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: Ideally, the budget is gonna set during project planning.
Orlando Sequera: Early in the project we create the pro, the the do. We establish a project with the project with the budget with the baseline. The cost baseline, by the way, the cost baseline, and that's only going to change through change control process. Okay, but
Orlando Sequera: For hybrid approaches, we ask, we have
Orlando Sequera: adaptability around a. We have to be a adaptable. It's incorporating that aspect from agile and then with agile. If we're following an adaptive approach, it's a little bit different. We have to work. We have. We have to collaborate with our stakeholders to understand a
Orlando Sequera: to have basically an open mind when it comes to.
Orlando Sequera: They bought it in approach, depending on the scope. And this the the scope that the team is trying to produce with the project. So we have to work. It's not going to be fixed at the beginning of the project. It's not going to be a creative at the beginning of the project, like we do with predictive, we need to understand, collaborate with our stakeholders
Orlando Sequera: well based on this features that we're building. We are going to suggest an incremental budgeting approach that allows the team to produce the features that are needed.
Orlando Sequera: and with a hybrid approach you need a little bit more flexibility than you have with predictive. That's what we're trying to say here.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to predictive planning.
Orlando Sequera: you have to start by creating a cost management plan. These are the rules are you going to follow for your cost in your project
Orlando Sequera: establishes? What currency are you going to be using. How are you going to track performance? A. Basically, all the rules? The same principle that we use for every single other area of our project.
Orlando Sequera: We have to also use estimating techniques. We need to estimate in this case, not
Orlando Sequera: duration. We're going to be estimating the costs associated with activities. We have to be able to
Orlando Sequera: develop a cost baseline. This is the approved version of the cost of our project that is only going to be changing through change control process. So we create another basin. This is the third one that we're mentioned. We have a scope, baseline. We have a scheduled baseline, and we have a cost. Baseline. This is all for predictive. Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And this is where we're going to have some
Orlando Sequera: project contingency
Orlando Sequera: press, Any identified risks. This is how we can address those
Orlando Sequera: a uncertainty that may or may not happen in the future. Those buffers of some of you were mentioning. This is how we address that those project contingencies are what we call reserves.
Orlando Sequera: And again, the cost baseline can only change through
Orlando Sequera: change control process.
Orlando Sequera: and what we create is, and this is something that I want you to remember when it comes to our value management. The project budget is also known as
Orlando Sequera: the bac or budget at completion. Whenever you see we're covering a and value management whenever you see Bac. That is the budget of completion that equals
Orlando Sequera: overall Project Budget.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: one aspect that we have to keep in mind. This is a great graphic because it allows us to understand multiple things.
Orlando Sequera: This is our
Orlando Sequera: What did I completion?
Orlando Sequera: There is a
Orlando Sequera: a couple of things that we have to take into account the funding requirements. Nobody gets in any project. A blind check
Orlando Sequera: for let's. Let's assume the estimate of the overall budget for for our project is 1 million dollars.
Orlando Sequera: Organizations are not gonna give you. Here you go, Mr. Orlando. You have a 1 million dollars to work on your project. Go ahead and and and spend it. That's not how it works. We're gonna get that in steps when we need we have to plan to make sure that's why we use
Orlando Sequera: our milestones, and the funding requirements are going to come in steps. That's what you see. This here. This resembles a ladder. These are the steps that when you're going to be getting your
Orlando Sequera: your funding requirements, I need you to make sure that they're available when they need to be available to make the payments
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: but one aspect here. When you're trying to determine.
Orlando Sequera: you're aggregating your cost of your activities, and you're also taking into account contingency reserves
Orlando Sequera: to address any risks that we you were able to identify, because to address risks. You need money, and you need time. So that's what we call contingency reserve.
Orlando Sequera: All of that is part of your
Orlando Sequera: A pro at your cost, Baseline. But outside of your cost, baseline. You have another type of reserve that we need to have in place, which is a set amount of money, a set amount of time that we call management reserve, and that is to address any unknowns, any UN identified risks
Orlando Sequera: that you were not able to identify for your project Again, you need time and money. So that is what we call the management reserve as the project manager. You have no authority to use the manager and reserve you need to ask
Orlando Sequera: for
Orlando Sequera: it. You need to ask for for permission in order to use the management reserves, but in order to use
Orlando Sequera: a contingency reserve, you can do it. You don't have to ask for permission. You can go ahead and use them. If a race materializes.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to developing your
Orlando Sequera: budget. You have to start with what's known.
Orlando Sequera: A check lessons learned from other projects
Orlando Sequera: check data from other projects that are similar, so you can have a starting point. That's why we compile lessons, learn, so we can go back and check those lessons from those projects that is really important. That is really key
Orlando Sequera: a look for a
Orlando Sequera: cost, estimating information, pitfalls that they had in the past, or successes that they had in the past. And then you have to estimate using
Orlando Sequera: the estimating techniques we use analogous to the estimation technique you can. You can use parametric estimation techniques. You can use a a also.
Orlando Sequera: You you can use per.
Orlando Sequera: and you can use bottom up for in. But in this case it's not the duration you can. You can use bottom up estimated for the cost
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to resource, costs
Orlando Sequera: a do you have? If you're following a predictive approach.
Orlando Sequera: you have to match the need.
Orlando Sequera: The project need to the resource attributes.
Orlando Sequera: And this is where we create an initial estimate based on average, and we change that estimate.
Orlando Sequera: I need it.
Orlando Sequera: If we follow an operative approach. We, if we're following a hybrid approach, we are going to assign a blended rate.
Orlando Sequera: and remember that we do. The estimation in agile is a little bit different.
Orlando Sequera: We estimate the level of complexity, not duration, and not cost, so we use it. It's a little bit different the way we the way we do it in agile. But in order to estimate the budget
Orlando Sequera: we have
Orlando Sequera: a simple formula is the cost per user story point times, the total point of value. Total point value of that are going to be completed, plus all our expenses. That's how we can forecast the budget that is needed.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, for our job project.
Orlando Sequera: When it comes to estimating the cost
Orlando Sequera: we in predictive, we estimate the cost
Orlando Sequera: at the activity level
Orlando Sequera: A,
Orlando Sequera: or we could also do it at the word package level. But we have to take into account all the costs associated with those activities.
Orlando Sequera: No, the labor is one of them, but we also have materials, Equipment supplies facilities, a.
Orlando Sequera: A. It in a considerations, and also
Orlando Sequera: what I mentioned before, contingency reserves. These are reserves in this specific case is a set amount of money that is going to allow us to address any risks that come to fruition in our project. Any reason that we were able to identify for our project identified risks we use continuously reserved for those
Orlando Sequera: at the beginning of our project. When we're estimating.
Orlando Sequera: we we can use an approach. That is
Orlando Sequera: what we call a rum.
Orlando Sequera: That's a ballpark estimate. It's anywhere from minus 25 to plus 75. So if it's at the beginning
Orlando Sequera: when we're using a wrong approach. When we say that something is costing a 100 is the they they it is like a $100,000. If we're using a rum estimate.
Orlando Sequera: We are saying that it's going to be anywhere between 75,000 $175,000 if we're using that
Orlando Sequera: if that's our level of accuracy. But we have to be able to
Orlando Sequera: work on increasing the level of accuracy of our estimates, and the goal should be to get to a really accurate estimate, which is a minus 5 to 2
Orlando Sequera: plus 10. So when we say that it's a 100,000, then
Orlando Sequera: what we're really saying is anywhere between
Orlando Sequera: 95,000 and a $110,000. That's a really accurate estimate that's a really accurate range for your estimate. Remember that an estimate is an approximation. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: A. And if it's an agile project.
Orlando Sequera: we are we expecting the scope to change? The answer is, Yes, in most cases, and we should use like what estimation methods
Orlando Sequera: for high level estimating, and understand that we're going to have to collaborate with stakeholders to understand those funding needs
Orlando Sequera: when it comes to the project project
Orlando Sequera: the best way and the most accurate estimation technique is to use bottom up estimation because we're going to add add the activity level. We're going to work our way up.
Orlando Sequera: and that's how we're going to be able to determine our
Orlando Sequera: cost baseline for the entire project.
Orlando Sequera: and then
Orlando Sequera: we can add contingency reserves
Orlando Sequera: that amount of money that is going to allow us to address any identified risks
Orlando Sequera: to our project, and if you add your project cost baseline to your contingency reserves. That is going to be your
Orlando Sequera: project project.
Orlando Sequera: But then, on top of that, you have to have also another type of reserves, which is what we call management reserves.
Orlando Sequera: These reserves are to address any risks that we were not able to identify for our project, and it happens, it happens when we talk about race, we're going to go over that board.
Orlando Sequera: We're not going to be able to identify every single possible risk for our projects. We have to be thorough with risk identification, but we have to be. We have to acknowledge the fact that not every single risk is going to be possible to identify that quick example. A global pandemic before
Orlando Sequera: 2020, 20. Not many organizations have that on their radar. So it happens, okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right and
Orlando Sequera: a little bit of a guidelines when it comes to budget planning for
Orlando Sequera: for agile
Orlando Sequera: and they should focus on
Orlando Sequera: short-term budget in the metrics rather than long term, because the scope is constantly changing.
Orlando Sequera: They should ideally focus on having periods of work and prioritize, though that work within those time periods.
Orlando Sequera: and it should be based on the cost of resources that are used for that particular time period. So it's a little bit more short-term we
Orlando Sequera: can do it long term because the scope is going to be changing. Okay, the scope is going to be changing.
Orlando Sequera: Also.
Orlando Sequera: when we're estimating the budget based on current data.
Orlando Sequera: What's the forecast algorithm
Orlando Sequera: that is based on historical data, a expert guidance using
Orlando Sequera: estimate, the budget based on current data that is important. You should use a top down approach using gross, level estimation techniques, and the budget should be revised at intervals. A spring planning
Orlando Sequera: a enterprise. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: for budget considerations. We should estimate the budget based on the length of time for the project.
Orlando Sequera: A
Orlando Sequera: we have when it comes to burn rate that should include the number of team members.
Orlando Sequera: a blended or actual team member rate and the time of involvement. And this is for agile projects. Okay.
Orlando Sequera: blender, create, as we mentioned before.
Orlando Sequera: we should use an assumption of full time team involvement, and any additional equipment or supplies
Orlando Sequera: are required. Then add them to the estimated cost.
Orlando Sequera: The product owner. In some cases they can control the budget depending on how the team is form.
Orlando Sequera: Okay?
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: that takes us to
Orlando Sequera: at the summary level. We have worked on.
Orlando Sequera: covering the budget and resources.
Orlando Sequera: estimating the project, or need
Orlando Sequera: and anticipate future budget challenges. And then we talked about planning and managing resources. These were the exam content on topics that we cover
Orlando Sequera: at the end.
Orlando Sequera: So this is the end of the content we have come to the end of the content.
Orlando Sequera: And now i'm going to take, we still have a few minutes are going to take those
Orlando Sequera: a minutes to address the questions that we have in the chat as much as possible.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: so
Orlando Sequera: there's a question in the chat.
Orlando Sequera: I'm. Sorry. Not in the chat in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: I will get it right before Friday. I'm.
Orlando Sequera: all right.
Orlando Sequera: That's a lot of contract vehicles past experience. I don't know if any Pms that were involved in contracts.
Orlando Sequera: It depends on the organization. But for the Pmp. Exam. Assume that you're going to be involved with the contract.
Orlando Sequera: So
Orlando Sequera: a
Orlando Sequera: Yes. Get familiarized with the type of contract that we have here. Assume that you're going to use them for the Pmp. Exempt. That's my best recommendation.
Orlando Sequera: Please do not forget to fill out the survey.
Orlando Sequera: We posted the link to the survey in the Q. And a.
Orlando Sequera: And
Orlando Sequera: please fill out the survey before the end of the class.
Orlando Sequera: All right. That's
Orlando Sequera: What is the difference between contingency and management? Reserve contingency? Reserve is a set amount of money or a set amount of time that we use to address identified risks
Orlando Sequera: you. An important aspect of our contingency reserves you as the project manager, do not have to ask for permission to use contingency reserves. If any of the risks that were identified for your project. Materialize. Go ahead and use it. You don't have to wait for any authorization manager, and reserve is a little bit different 150.
Orlando Sequera: It's also a set amount of money and a set amount of time
Orlando Sequera: that is allocated to address any
Orlando Sequera: risks that were not identified for your project.
Orlando Sequera: You need permission to address those you have to ask permission. They you don't have authority to use them, but it's usually the situations in which your level of a 30 are is is not
Orlando Sequera: you, Don't? You can solve it with project management situations that you can solve it with project management. Imagine it got Forbates a terrorist attack that happens. And in your in your location what do we do? We need? We need more time. There's gonna be a delay to our project. So in situations
Orlando Sequera: let like that, then you have to use management, reserve what you need.
Orlando Sequera: You need authorization for that. So that is the difference between the 2.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, we're we're gonna talk about them.
Orlando Sequera: When we talk about risk.
Orlando Sequera: our subcontractors consider a bor option and resources needs no. It is an option to fill resources needs so
Orlando Sequera: sure. Answer is yes.
Orlando Sequera: in a predicted product environment. If the team to hire a software expert later
Orlando Sequera: down the project. But this was on in
Orlando Sequera: these ones, including the scope that the Pm. Need to issue a change request.
Orlando Sequera: Well.
Orlando Sequera: yes, if you are able to determine that you need an additional expert, you gotta create a change request, because there is.
Orlando Sequera: If that wasn't accounted for, you need money
Orlando Sequera: and you're going to need time. So that has an impact on your project. So yes, you need to go
Orlando Sequera: a through that approval process. So. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: okay.
Orlando Sequera: If the project has multiple complicated procurement requirements for external resourcing, would it be more advantageous to have personnel from the procurement legal departments of your organization to become functional members of the team in most cases that's not going to be possible.
Orlando Sequera: A. I'm. Not saying no, but in most cases that's not going to be possible. You get to work with them, and they're going to designate a contact person, and you work with them. They have enough on their on their plate
Orlando Sequera: on the
Orlando Sequera: to have to be assigned to operate in some cases that might be the case, but it usually that's not what happens. You have to work with them.
Okay.
Orlando Sequera: good funding levels we tied up to milestones. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Is it bad for a Pm. Not to identify a risk that requires management reserve. Well, remember, we're gonna we're gonna talk about risk, and it's gonna become clear. So
Orlando Sequera: we have to be as thorough as possible. We're risk identification. We're going to mention that. But it happens we're not there. There are. I'm going to provide some examples that are going to help to understand that a little bit more.
Orlando Sequera: and so it's mentioned reserve only to us for unknown unknowns. Yes, correct.
Orlando Sequera: Yes.
Orlando Sequera: You see a cost plus fixed fee, same as firm contract. I do not.
Orlando Sequera: i'm not familiar with that terminology. What do you mean by a firm contract? So
Orlando Sequera: I do not know
A.
Orlando Sequera: Can you talk more about burned on charts and Bernoulli chats. When we get to earn value management we will.
Orlando Sequera: When we get to that.
Orlando Sequera: please be patient. We're going to get to that point, so please be patient.
Orlando Sequera: Our ours on Earth queues. May there be procurement team
Orlando Sequera: by the P. And the Pm. Works with the procurement team to have the those created
Orlando Sequera: cost based on it can be fine for predictive. Yes.
Orlando Sequera: Is there a rubric of for source selection criteria? We just went over that the most common aspects of the source selection criteria. We went over. That.
Orlando Sequera: Is there a grading percentage of scale for a selection criteria that is specific to your organization.
Orlando Sequera: What is the common thread? I'm. On. Add your contract to set them apart as as your contract. Will that a contract that if you're following an agile approach. You want to follow and add your contract.
Orlando Sequera: Can you clarify budget, difference on agile and predictive predictive? You want to define the entire budget
Orlando Sequera: for the entire project. That's how you do it and predict it, for in agile it's more short-term, and there's a reason for that. Remember the scope is changing constantly. That that's why
Orlando Sequera: it's a question of a slide number 103
Orlando Sequera: a cost plus an incentive fee, are the typically documented mountains of shipments is
He's
Orlando Sequera: purely for cost, plus a worthy. I'm sorry this is a question of a slide number 3 cost plus a worth fee. Are there typically documented mountains achievements.
Orlando Sequera: It's not about master's achieve it. It's about criteria, right. They are very subjective. They're very subjective. The Government
Orlando Sequera: a is notorious for using
Orlando Sequera: cost plus a worthy
Orlando Sequera: type of contracts.
Orlando Sequera: The budget cost part of resourcing. No, it's a separate area bodies. It has an impact. Resources have an impact on cost, but they're separate areas. They're not part of resources. They're separate areas of your project
Orlando Sequera: is the F. The EPA. Similar with C plus escalation. I
Orlando Sequera: to? I need more context on that. Sorry.
Orlando Sequera: Are there multiple types of manager and bunch of research? No, there's only one type. It's. It's as a set amount of money
Orlando Sequera: and a set amount of time.
Orlando Sequera: Okay, in this case, about money
Orlando Sequera: it's only one.
Orlando Sequera: Will the Pmp: exam test on the a specific add-on contract types.
Orlando Sequera: take practice questions, Take perip your questions, and that's the best way to answer that question. Okay, take the practice questions. In test print.
Orlando Sequera: Not sure I fully understand the difference between fixed price with incentive fee and fixed price, with the economic price adjustment
Orlando Sequera: fixed. Price with government press adjustment is for countries that have a long duration, imagine that the government is developing a new class of submarine that can take 25 years
So.
Orlando Sequera: in order to protect themselves from fluctuations in commodities like oil. For example.
Orlando Sequera: remember all prices go up, go down. They use a fixed price with economic a price adjustment for that
Orlando Sequera: fixed price with incentive fee. Simply. If you sell, do you set criteria performance criteria? They buyer?
Orlando Sequera: No, the seller exists. The criteria. They get an incentive fee
Orlando Sequera: on top of their profit
Orlando Sequera: is Cfo key for budget. I'm sorry.
Orlando Sequera: Could you explain data? Date on Slide 156. You'll have to be. It'll be more specific than that. I don't
Orlando Sequera: is sow the same as Urs. I do not know what your s stands for. My apologies
Orlando Sequera: Statement of work. That's what
Orlando Sequera: the Cfo key for budget reserve across. Generally this is something that you work internally with your. In some cases they might be part of the discussion, but not necessarily.
Orlando Sequera: They are
Orlando Sequera: going to be involving every single conversation they have. That's at sea Level Executive. There
Orlando Sequera: you do this with your your sponsor, with your key stakeholders, but not necessarily the Cfo.
Orlando Sequera: Can you please read the questions clearly, and doing my best? My apologies
Orlando Sequera: all right. We have come to the end of the session. We're going to stay here to address a few more questions.
Orlando Sequera: You are
Orlando Sequera: we have come to the official and please fill out the survey
Orlando Sequera: and please review
Orlando Sequera: the vocabulary.
Orlando Sequera: That is important for the exam. You need to re use that terminology. Remember that might change in your organization. It might be different. Okay, it might be different. So thank you very much. Everyone
Orlando Sequera: I know it's a lot of information.
Orlando Sequera: and
Orlando Sequera: we're gonna do it again tomorrow. So we have come officially to the end of the session.
Orlando Sequera: We're gonna stay here for a few more minutes to answer a few more questions, but
Orlando Sequera: we will do it again tomorrow.
Orlando Sequera: Thank you so much.